CHAPTER 1. Loomings. Call me Ishmael. Some years
mind how long precisely—having little or no money
my purse, and nothing particular to interest me
shore, I thought I would sail about a
and see the watery part of the world.
is a way I have of driving off
spleen and regulating the circulation. Whenever I find
growing grim about the mouth; whenever it is
damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I
myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing
the rear of every funeral I meet; and
whenever my hypos get such an upper hand
me, that it requires a strong moral principle
prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street,
methodically knocking people's hats off—then, I account it
time to get to sea as soon as
can. This is my substitute for pistol and
With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon
sword; I quietly take to the ship. There
nothing surprising in this. If they but knew
almost all men in their degree, some time
other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards
ocean with me. There now is your insular
of the Manhattoes, belted round by wharves as
isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her
Right and left, the streets take you waterward.
extreme downtown is the battery, where that noble
is washed by waves, and cooled by breezes,
a few hours previous were out of sight
land. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.
the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go
Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence,
Whitehall, northward. What do you see?—Posted like silent
all around the town, stand thousands upon thousands
mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some leaning
the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
over the bulwarks of ships from China; some
aloft in the rigging, as if striving to
a still better seaward peep. But these are
landsmen; of week days pent up in lath
plaster—tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to
How then is this? Are the green fields
What do they here? But look! here come
crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly
for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them
the extremest limit of the land; loitering under
shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice.
They must get just as nigh the water
they possibly can without falling in. And there
stand—miles of them—leagues. Inlanders all, they come from
and alleys, streets and avenues—north, east, south, and
Yet here they all unite. Tell me, does
magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses
all those ships attract them thither? Once more.
you are in the country; in some high
of lakes. Take almost any path you please,
ten to one it carries you down in
dale, and leaves you there by a pool
the stream. There is magic in it. Let
most absent-minded of men be plunged in his
reveries—stand that man on his legs, set his
a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to
if water there be in all that region.
you ever be athirst in the great American
try this experiment, if your caravan happen to
supplied with a metaphysical professor. Yes, as every
knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
here is an artist. He desires to paint
the dreamiest, shadiest, quietest, most enchanting bit of
landscape in all the valley of the Saco.
is the chief element he employs? There stand
trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if
hermit and a crucifix were within; and here
his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and
from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep
distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to
spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue.
though the picture lies thus tranced, and though
pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon
shepherd's head, yet all were vain, unless the
eye were fixed upon the magic stream before
Go visit the Prairies in June, when for
on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among
is the one charm wanting?—Water—there is not a
of water there! Were Niagara but a cataract
sand, would you travel your thousand miles to
it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee,
suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether
buy him a coat, which he sadly needed,
invest his money in a pedestrian trip to
Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy
a robust healthy soul in him, at some
or other crazy to go to sea? Why
your first voyage as a passenger, did you
feel such a mystical vibration, when first told
you and your ship were now out of
of land? Why did the old Persians hold
sea holy? Why did the Greeks give it
separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely
this is not without meaning. And still deeper
meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because
could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he
in the fountain, plunged into it and was
But that same image, we ourselves see in
rivers and oceans. It is the image of
ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the
to it all. Now, when I say that
am in the habit of going to sea
I begin to grow hazy about the eyes,
begin to be over conscious of my lungs,
do not mean to have it inferred that
ever go to sea as a passenger. For
go as a passenger you must needs have
purse, and a purse is but a rag
you have something in it. Besides, passengers get
quarrelsome—don't sleep of nights—do not enjoy themselves much,
a general thing;—no, I never go as a
nor, though I am something of a salt,
I ever go to sea as a Commodore,
a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the
and distinction of such offices to those who
them. For my part, I abominate all honourable
toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever.
is quite as much as I can do
take care of myself, without taking care of
barques, brigs, schooners, and what not. And as
going as cook,—though I confess there is considerable
in that, a cook being a sort of
on ship-board—yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls;—though
broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered,
is no one who will speak more respectfully,
to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than
will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings
the old Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted
horse, that you see the mummies of those
in their huge bake-houses the pyramids. No, when
go to sea, I go as a simple
right before the mast, plumb down into the
aloft there to the royal mast-head. True, they
order me about some, and make me jump
spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a
meadow. And at first, this sort of thing
unpleasant enough. It touches one's sense of honour,
if you come of an old established family
the land, the Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or
And more than all, if just previous to
your hand into the tar-pot, you have been
it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest
stand in awe of you. The transition is
keen one, I assure you, from a schoolmaster
a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of
and the Stoics to enable you to grin
bear it. But even this wears off in
What of it, if some old hunks of
sea-captain orders me to get a broom and
down the decks? What does that indignity amount
weighed, I mean, in the scales of the
Testament? Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks
the less of me, because I promptly and
obey that old hunks in that particular instance?
ain't a slave? Tell me that. Well, then,
the old sea-captains may order me about—however they
thump and punch me about, I have the
of knowing that it is all right; that
else is one way or other served in
the same way—either in a physical or metaphysical
of view, that is; and so the universal
is passed round, and all hands should rub
other's shoulder-blades, and be content. Again, I always
to sea as a sailor, because they make
point of paying me for my trouble, whereas
never pay passengers a single penny that I
heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must
And there is all the difference in the
between paying and being paid. The act of
is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the
orchard thieves entailed upon us. But being paid,—what
compare with it? The urbane activity with which
man receives money is really marvellous, considering that
so earnestly believe money to be the root
all earthly ills, and that on no account
a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully
consign ourselves to perdition! Finally, I always go
sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For
in this world, head winds are far more
than winds from astern (that is, if you
violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most
the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere
second hand from the sailors on the forecastle.
thinks he breathes it first; but not so.
much the same way do the commonalty lead
leaders in many other things, at the same
that the leaders little suspect it. But wherefore
was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea
a merchant sailor, I should now take it
my head to go on a whaling voyage;
the invisible police officer of the Fates, who
the constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs
and influences me in some unaccountable way—he can
answer than any one else. And, doubtless, my
on this whaling voyage, formed part of the
programme of Providence that was drawn up a
time ago. It came in as a sort
brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances.
take it that this part of the bill
have run something like this: "Grand Contested Election
the Presidency of the United States. "WHALING VOYAGE
ONE ISHMAEL. "BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN." Though I
tell why it was exactly that those stage
the Fates, put me down for this shabby
of a whaling voyage, when others were set
for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short
easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts
farces—though I cannot tell why this was exactly;
now that I recall all the circumstances, I
I can see a little into the springs
motives which being cunningly presented to me under
disguises, induced me to set about performing the
I did, besides cajoling me into the delusion
it was a choice resulting from my own
freewill and discriminating judgment. Chief among these motives
the overwhelming idea of the great whale himself.
a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my
Then the wild and distant seas where he
his island bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of
whale; these, with all the attending marvels of
thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway
to my wish. With other men, perhaps, such
would not have been inducements; but as for
I am tormented with an everlasting itch for
remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and
on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good,
am quick to perceive a horror, and could
be social with it—would they let me—since it
but well to be on friendly terms with
the inmates of the place one lodges in.
reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage
welcome; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung
and in the wild conceits that swayed me
my purpose, two and two there floated into
inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and,
most of them all, one grand hooded phantom,
a snow hill in the air. CHAPTER 2.
Carpet-Bag. I stuffed a shirt or two into
old carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm, and
for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the
city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in
Bedford. It was a Saturday night in December.
was I disappointed upon learning that the little
for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no
of reaching that place would offer, till the
Monday. As most young candidates for the pains
penalties of whaling stop at this same New
thence to embark on their voyage, it may
well be related that I, for one, had
idea of so doing. For my mind was
up to sail in no other than a
craft, because there was a fine, boisterous something
everything connected with that famous old island, which
pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has of
been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and
in this matter poor old Nantucket is now
behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original—the
of this Carthage;—the place where the first dead
whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket
those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out
canoes to give chase to the Leviathan? And
but from Nantucket, too, did that first adventurous
sloop put forth, partly laden with imported cobblestones—so
the story—to throw at the whales, in order
discover when they were nigh enough to risk
harpoon from the bowsprit? Now having a night,
day, and still another night following before me
New Bedford, ere I could embark for my
port, it became a matter of concernment where
was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was
very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal
bitingly cold and cheerless. I knew no one
the place. With anxious grapnels I had sounded
pocket, and only brought up a few pieces
silver,—So, wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to
as I stood in the middle of a
street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom
the north with the darkness towards the south—wherever
your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for
night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire
price, and don't be too particular. With halting
I paced the streets, and passed the sign
"The Crossed Harpoons"—but it looked too expensive and
there. Further on, from the bright red windows
the "Sword-Fish Inn," there came such fervent rays,
it seemed to have melted the packed snow
ice from before the house, for everywhere else
congealed frost lay ten inches thick in a
asphaltic pavement,—rather weary for me, when I struck
foot against the flinty projections, because from hard,
service the soles of my boots were in
most miserable plight. Too expensive and jolly, again
I, pausing one moment to watch the broad
in the street, and hear the sounds of
tinkling glasses within. But go on, Ishmael, said
at last; don't you hear? get away from
the door; your patched boots are stopping the
So on I went. I now by instinct
the streets that took me waterward, for there,
were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.
dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on
hand, and here and there a candle, like
candle moving about in a tomb. At this
of the night, of the last day of
week, that quarter of the town proved all
deserted. But presently I came to a smoky
proceeding from a low, wide building, the door
which stood invitingly open. It had a careless
as if it were meant for the uses
the public; so, entering, the first thing I
was to stumble over an ash-box in the
Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying particles
choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed
Gomorrah? But "The Crossed Harpoons," and "The Sword-Fish?"—this,
must needs be the sign of "The Trap."
I picked myself up and hearing a loud
within, pushed on and opened a second, interior
It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in
A hundred black faces turned round in their
to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of
was beating a book in a pulpit. It
a negro church; and the preacher's text was
the blackness of darkness, and the weeping and
and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing
Wretched entertainment at the sign of 'The Trap!'
on, I at last came to a dim
of light not far from the docks, and
a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking
saw a swinging sign over the door with
white painting upon it, faintly representing a tall
jet of misty spray, and these words underneath—"The
Inn:—Peter Coffin." Coffin?—Spouter?—Rather ominous in that particular connexion,
I. But it is a common name in
they say, and I suppose this Peter here
an emigrant from there. As the light looked
dim, and the place, for the time, looked
enough, and the dilapidated little wooden house itself
as if it might have been carted here
the ruins of some burnt district, and as
swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort of creak
it, I thought that here was the very
for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea
It was a queer sort of place—a gable-ended
house, one side palsied as it were, and
over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak
where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a
howling than ever it did about poor Paul's
craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr
any one in-doors, with his feet on the
quietly toasting for bed. "In judging of that
wind called Euroclydon," says an old writer—of whose
I possess the only copy extant—"it maketh a
difference, whether thou lookest out at it from
glass window where the frost is all on
outside, or whether thou observest it from that
window, where the frost is on both sides,
of which the wight Death is the only
True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred
my mind—old black-letter, thou reasonest well. Yes, these
are windows, and this body of mine is
house. What a pity they didn't stop up
chinks and the crannies though, and thrust in
little lint here and there. But it's too
to make any improvements now. The universe is
the copestone is on, and the chips were
off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus there,
his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow,
shaking off his tatters with his shiverings, he
plug up both ears with rags, and put
corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would
keep out the tempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old
in his red silken wrapper—(he had a redder
afterwards) pooh, pooh! What a fine frosty night;
Orion glitters; what northern lights! Let them talk
their oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give
the privilege of making my own summer with
own coals. But what thinks Lazarus? Can he
his blue hands by holding them up to
grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be
Sumatra than here? Would he not far rather
him down lengthwise along the line of the
yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery
itself, in order to keep out this frost?
that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the
before the door of Dives, this is more
than that an iceberg should be moored to
of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too
like a Czar in an ice palace made
frozen sighs, and being a president of a
society, he only drinks the tepid tears of
But no more of this blubbering now, we
going a-whaling, and there is plenty of that
to come. Let us scrape the ice from
frosted feet, and see what sort of a
this "Spouter" may be. CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.
that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a
low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one
the bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On
side hung a very large oilpainting so thoroughly
and every way defaced, that in the unequal
by which you viewed it, it was only
diligent study and a series of systematic visits
it, and careful inquiry of the neighbors, that
could any way arrive at an understanding of
purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows,
at first you almost thought some ambitious young
in the time of the New England hags,
endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings,
especially by throwing open the little window towards
back of the entry, you at last come
the conclusion that such an idea, however wild,
not be altogether unwarranted. But what most puzzled
confounded you was a long, limber, portentous, black
of something hovering in the centre of the
over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in
nameless yeast. A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly,
to drive a nervous man distracted. Yet was
a sort of indefinite, half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about
that fairly froze you to it, till you
took an oath with yourself to find out
that marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a
but, alas, deceptive idea would dart you through.—It's
Black Sea in a midnight gale.—It's the unnatural
of the four primal elements.—It's a blasted heath.—It's
Hyperborean winter scene.—It's the breaking-up of the icebound
of Time. But at last all these fancies
to that one portentous something in the picture's
That once found out, and all the rest
plain. But stop; does it not bear a
resemblance to a gigantic fish? even the great
himself? In fact, the artist's design seemed this:
final theory of my own, partly based upon
aggregated opinions of many aged persons with whom
conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a
in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering
with its three dismantled masts alone visible; and
exasperated whale, purposing to spring clean over the
is in the enormous act of impaling himself
the three mast-heads. The opposite wall of this
was hung all over with a heathenish array
monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted
knots of human hair; and one was sickle-shaped,
a vast handle sweeping round like the segment
in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower.
shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous
and savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting
such a hacking, horrifying implement. Mixed with these
rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken
deformed. Some were storied weapons. With this once
lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did
Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and
sunset. And that harpoon—so like a corkscrew now—was
in Javan seas, and run away with by
whale, years afterwards slain off the Cape of
The original iron entered nigh the tail, and,
a restless needle sojourning in the body of
man, travelled full forty feet, and at last
found imbedded in the hump. Crossing this dusky
and on through yon low-arched way—cut through what
old times must have been a great central
with fireplaces all round—you enter the public room.
still duskier place is this, with such low
beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath,
you would almost fancy you trod some old
cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when
corner-anchored old ark rocked so furiously. On one
stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with
glass cases, filled with dusty rarities gathered from
wide world's remotest nooks. Projecting from the further
of the room stands a dark-looking den—the bar—a
attempt at a right whale's head. Be that
it may, there stands the vast arched bone
the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might
drive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged
with old decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those
of swift destruction, like another cursed Jonah (by
name indeed they called him), bustles a little
old man, who, for their money, dearly sells
sailors deliriums and death. Abominable are the tumblers
which he pours his poison. Though true cylinders
the villanous green goggling glasses deceitfully tapered downwards
a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians rudely pecked into
glass, surround these footpads' goblets. Fill to this
and your charge is but a penny; to
a penny more; and so on to the
glass—the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp
for a shilling. Upon entering the place I
a number of young seamen gathered about a
examining by a dim light divers specimens of
I sought the landlord, and telling him I
to be accommodated with a room, received for
that his house was full—not a bed unoccupied.
avast," he added, tapping his forehead, "you haint
objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?
s'pose you are goin' a-whalin', so you'd better
used to that sort of thing." I told
that I never liked to sleep two in
bed; that if I should ever do so,
would depend upon who the harpooneer might be,
that if he (the landlord) really had no
place for me, and the harpooneer was not
objectionable, why rather than wander further about a
town on so bitter a night, I would
up with the half of any decent man's
"I thought so. All right; take a seat.
want supper? Supper'll be ready directly." I sat
on an old wooden settle, carved all over
a bench on the Battery. At one end
ruminating tar was still further adorning it with
jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at
space between his legs. He was trying his
at a ship under full sail, but he
make much headway, I thought. At last some
or five of us were summoned to our
in an adjoining room. It was cold as
fire at all—the landlord said he couldn't afford
Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in
winding sheet. We were fain to button up
monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups
scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But
fare was of the most substantial kind—not only
and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for
One young fellow in a green box coat,
himself to these dumplings in a most direful
"My boy," said the landlord, "you'll have the
to a dead sartainty." "Landlord," I whispered, "that
the harpooneer is it?" "Oh, no," said he,
a sort of diabolically funny, "the harpooneer is
dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, he
eats nothing but steaks, and he likes 'em
"The devil he does," says I. "Where is
harpooneer? Is he here?" "He'll be here afore
was the answer. I could not help it,
I began to feel suspicious of this "dark
harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my
that if it so turned out that we
sleep together, he must undress and get into
before I did. Supper over, the company went
to the bar-room, when, knowing not what else
do with myself, I resolved to spend the
of the evening as a looker on. Presently
rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the
cried, "That's the Grampus's crew. I seed her
in the offing this morning; a three years'
and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; now we'll
the latest news from the Feegees." A tramping
sea boots was heard in the entry; the
was flung open, and in rolled a wild
of mariners enough. Enveloped in their shaggy watch
and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters,
bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with
they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.
had just landed from their boat, and this
the first house they entered. No wonder, then,
they made a straight wake for the whale's
bar—when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating,
poured them out brimmers all round. One complained
a bad cold in his head, upon which
mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and
which he swore was a sovereign cure for
colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never mind of how
standing, or whether caught off the coast of
or on the weather side of an ice-island.
liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it
does even with the arrantest topers newly landed
sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously.
observed, however, that one of them held somewhat
and though he seemed desirous not to spoil
hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober
yet upon the whole he refrained from making
much noise as the rest. This man interested
at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained
he should soon become my shipmate (though but
sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is
I will here venture upon a little description
him. He stood full six feet in height,
noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam.
have seldom seen such brawn in a man.
face was deeply brown and burnt, making his
teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the
shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that
not seem to give him much joy. His
at once announced that he was a Southerner,
from his fine stature, I thought he must
one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleghanian
in Virginia. When the revelry of his companions
mounted to its height, this man slipped away
and I saw no more of him till
became my comrade on the sea. In a
minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates,
being, it seems, for some reason a huge
with them, they raised a cry of "Bulkington!
where's Bulkington?" and darted out of the house
pursuit of him. It was now about nine
and the room seeming almost supernaturally quiet after
orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon a
plan that had occurred to me just previous
the entrance of the seamen. No man prefers
sleep two in a bed. In fact, you
a good deal rather not sleep with your
brother. I don't know how it is, but
like to be private when they are sleeping.
when it comes to sleeping with an unknown
in a strange inn, in a strange town,
that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely
Nor was there any earthly reason why I
a sailor should sleep two in a bed,
than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep
in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings
ashore. To be sure they all sleep together
one apartment, but you have your own hammock,
cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep
your own skin. The more I pondered over
harpooneer, the more I abominated the thought of
with him. It was fair to presume that
a harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the
might be, would not be of the tidiest,
none of the finest. I began to twitch
over. Besides, it was getting late, and my
harpooneer ought to be home and going bedwards.
now, he should tumble in upon me at
could I tell from what vile hole he
been coming? "Landlord! I've changed my mind about
harpooneer.—I shan't sleep with him. I'll try the
here." "Just as you please; I'm sorry I
spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress, and
a plaguy rough board here"—feeling of the knots
notches. "But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've got
carpenter's plane there in the bar—wait, I say,
I'll make ye snug enough." So saying he
the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief
dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away
my bed, the while grinning like an ape.
shavings flew right and left; till at last
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The
was near spraining his wrist, and I told
for heaven's sake to quit—the bed was soft
to suit me, and I did not know
all the planing in the world could make
down of a pine plank. So gathering up
shavings with another grin, and throwing them into
great stove in the middle of the room,
went about his business, and left me in
brown study. I now took the measure of
bench, and found that it was a foot
short; but that could be mended with a
But it was a foot too narrow, and
other bench in the room was about four
higher than the planed one—so there was no
them. I then placed the first bench lengthwise
the only clear space against the wall, leaving
little interval between, for my back to settle
in. But I soon found that there came
a draught of cold air over me from
the sill of the window, that this plan
never do at all, especially as another current
the rickety door met the one from the
and both together formed a series of small
in the immediate vicinity of the spot where
had thought to spend the night. The devil
that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I
a march on him—bolt his door inside, and
into his bed, not to be wakened by
most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea;
upon second thoughts I dismissed it. For who
tell but what the next morning, so soon
I popped out of the room, the harpooneer
be standing in the entry, all ready to
me down! Still, looking round me again, and
no possible chance of spending a sufferable night
in some other person's bed, I began to
that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable
against this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I'll wait
he must be dropping in before long. I'll
a good look at him then, and perhaps
may become jolly good bedfellows after all—there's no
But though the other boarders kept coming in
ones, twos, and threes, and going to bed,
no sign of my harpooneer. "Landlord!" said I,
sort of a chap is he—does he always
such late hours?" It was now hard upon
o'clock. The landlord chuckled again with his lean
and seemed to be mightily tickled at something
my comprehension. "No," he answered, "generally he's an
bird—airley to bed and airley to rise—yes, he's
bird what catches the worm. But to-night he
out a peddling, you see, and I don't
what on airth keeps him so late, unless,
be, he can't sell his head." "Can't sell
head?—What sort of a bamboozingly story is this
are telling me?" getting into a towering rage.
you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer
actually engaged this blessed Saturday night, or rather
morning, in peddling his head around this town?"
precisely it," said the landlord, "and I told
he couldn't sell it here, the market's overstocked."
what?" shouted I. "With heads to be sure;
there too many heads in the world?" "I
you what it is, landlord," said I quite
"you'd better stop spinning that yarn to me—I'm
green." "May be not," taking out a stick
whittling a toothpick, "but I rayther guess you'll
done brown if that ere harpooneer hears you
slanderin' his head." "I'll break it for him,"
I, now flying into a passion again at
unaccountable farrago of the landlord's. "It's broke a'ready,"
he. "Broke," said I—"broke, do you mean?" "Sartain,
that's the very reason he can't sell it,
guess." "Landlord," said I, going up to him
cool as Mt. Hecla in a snow-storm—"landlord, stop
You and I must understand one another, and
too without delay. I come to your house
want a bed; you tell me you can
give me half a one; that the other
belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this
whom I have not yet seen, you persist
telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards
man whom you design for my bedfellow—a sort
connexion, landlord, which is an intimate and confidential
in the highest degree. I now demand of
to speak out and tell me who and
this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be
all respects safe to spend the night with
And in the first place, you will be
good as to unsay that story about selling
head, which if true I take to be
evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and
no idea of sleeping with a madman; and
sir, you I mean, landlord, you, sir, by
to induce me to do so knowingly, would
render yourself liable to a criminal prosecution." "Wall,"
the landlord, fetching a long breath, "that's a
long sarmon for a chap that rips a
now and then. But be easy, be easy,
here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of
just arrived from the south seas, where he
up a lot of 'balmed New Zealand heads
curios, you know), and he's sold all on
but one, and that one he's trying to
to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it would not
to be sellin' human heads about the streets
folks is goin' to churches. He wanted to,
Sunday, but I stopped him just as he
goin' out of the door with four heads
on a string, for all the airth like
string of inions." This account cleared up the
unaccountable mystery, and showed that the landlord, after
had had no idea of fooling me—but at
same time what could I think of a
who stayed out of a Saturday night clean
the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
as selling the heads of dead idolators? "Depend
it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man."
pays reg'lar," was the rejoinder. "But come, it's
dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes—it's
nice bed; Sal and me slept in that
bed the night we were spliced. There's plenty
room for two to kick about in that
it's an almighty big bed that. Why, afore
give it up, Sal used to put our
and little Johnny in the foot of it.
I got a dreaming and sprawling about one
and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor,
came near breaking his arm. Arter that, Sal
it wouldn't do. Come along here, I'll give
a glim in a jiffy;" and so saying
lighted a candle and held it towards me,
to lead the way. But I stood irresolute;
looking at a clock in the corner, he
"I vum it's Sunday—you won't see that harpooneer
he's come to anchor somewhere—come along then; do
won't ye come?" I considered the matter a
and then up stairs we went, and I
ushered into a small room, cold as a
and furnished, sure enough, with a prodigious bed,
big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to
abreast. "There," said the landlord, placing the candle
a crazy old sea chest that did double
as a wash-stand and centre table; "there, make
comfortable now, and good night to ye." I
round from eyeing the bed, but he had
Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the
Though none of the most elegant, it yet
the scrutiny tolerably well. I then glanced round
room; and besides the bedstead and centre table,
see no other furniture belonging to the place,
a rude shelf, the four walls, and a
fireboard representing a man striking a whale. Of
not properly belonging to the room, there was
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor
one corner; also a large seaman's bag, containing
harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a
trunk. Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish
fish hooks on the shelf over the fire-place,
a tall harpoon standing at the head of
bed. But what is this on the chest?
took it up, and held it close to
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and
every way possible to arrive at some satisfactory
concerning it. I can compare it to nothing
a large door mat, ornamented at the edges
little tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine
round an Indian moccasin. There was a hole
slit in the middle of this mat, as
see the same in South American ponchos. But
it be possible that any sober harpooneer would
into a door mat, and parade the streets
any Christian town in that sort of guise?
put it on, to try it, and it
me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy
thick, and I thought a little damp, as
this mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of
rainy day. I went up in it to
bit of glass stuck against the wall, and
never saw such a sight in my life.
tore myself out of it in such a
that I gave myself a kink in the
I sat down on the side of the
and commenced thinking about this head-peddling harpooneer, and
door mat. After thinking some time on the
I got up and took off my monkey
and then stood in the middle of the
thinking. I then took off my coat, and
a little more in my shirt sleeves. But
to feel very cold now, half undressed as
was, and remembering what the landlord said about
harpooneer's not coming home at all that night,
being so very late, I made no more
but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots,
then blowing out the light tumbled into bed,
commended myself to the care of heaven. Whether
mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery,
is no telling, but I rolled about a
deal, and could not sleep for a long
At last I slid off into a light
and had pretty nearly made a good offing
the land of Nod, when I heard a
footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer
light come into the room from under the
Lord save me, thinks I, that must be
harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler. But I lay perfectly
and resolved not to say a word till
to. Holding a light in one hand, and
identical New Zealand head in the other, the
entered the room, and without looking towards the
placed his candle a good way off from
on the floor in one corner, and then
working away at the knotted cords of the
bag I before spoke of as being in
room. I was all eagerness to see his
but he kept it averted for some time
employed in unlacing the bag's mouth. This accomplished,
he turned round—when, good heavens! what a sight!
a face! It was of a dark, purplish,
colour, here and there stuck over with large
looking squares. Yes, it's just as I thought,
a terrible bedfellow; he's been in a fight,
dreadfully cut, and here he is, just from
surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to
his face so towards the light, that I
saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all,
black squares on his cheeks. They were stains
some sort or other. At first I knew
what to make of this; but soon an
of the truth occurred to me. I remembered
story of a white man—a whaleman too—who, falling
the cannibals, had been tattooed by them. I
that this harpooneer, in the course of his
voyages, must have met with a similar adventure.
what is it, thought I, after all! It's
his outside; a man can be honest in
sort of skin. But then, what to make
his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I
lying round about, and completely independent of the
of tattooing. To be sure, it might be
but a good coat of tropical tanning; but
never heard of a hot sun's tanning a
man into a purplish yellow one. However, I
never been in the South Seas; and perhaps
sun there produced these extraordinary effects upon the
Now, while all these ideas were passing through
like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at
But, after some difficulty having opened his bag,
commenced fumbling in it, and presently pulled out
sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with
hair on. Placing these on the old chest
the middle of the room, he then took
New Zealand head—a ghastly thing enough—and crammed it
into the bag. He now took off his
new beaver hat—when I came nigh singing out
fresh surprise. There was no hair on his
to speak of at least—nothing but a small
twisted up on his forehead. His bald purplish
now looked for all the world like a
skull. Had not the stranger stood between me
the door, I would have bolted out of
quicker than ever I bolted a dinner. Even
it was, I thought something of slipping out
the window, but it was the second floor
I am no coward, but what to make
this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
is the parent of fear, and being completely
and confounded about the stranger, I confess I
now as much afraid of him as if
was the devil himself who had thus broken
my room at the dead of night. In
I was so afraid of him that I
not game enough just then to address him,
demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable
him. Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing,
at last showed his chest and arms. As
live, these covered parts of him were checkered
the same squares as his face; his back,
was all over the same dark squares; he
to have been in a Thirty Years' War,
just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt.
more, his very legs were marked, as if
parcel of dark green frogs were running up
trunks of young palms. It was now quite
that he must be some abominable savage or
shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South
and so landed in this Christian country. I
to think of it. A peddler of heads
the heads of his own brothers. He might
a fancy to mine—heavens! look at that tomahawk!
there was no time for shuddering, for now
savage went about something that completely fascinated my
and convinced me that he must indeed be
heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall,
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a
he fumbled in the pockets, and produced at
a curious little deformed image with a hunch
its back, and exactly the colour of a
days' old Congo baby. Remembering the embalmed head,
first I almost thought that this black manikin
a real baby preserved in some similar manner.
seeing that it was not at all limber,
that it glistened a good deal like polished
I concluded that it must be nothing but
wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be.
now the savage goes up to the empty
and removing the papered fire-board, sets up this
hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the andirons.
chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were
sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made
very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his
idol. I now screwed my eyes hard towards
half hidden image, feeling but ill at ease
see what was next to follow. First he
about a double handful of shavings out of
grego pocket, and places them carefully before the
then laying a bit of ship biscuit on
and applying the flame from the lamp, he
the shavings into a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after
hasty snatches into the fire, and still hastier
of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be
them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing
the biscuit; then blowing off the heat and
a little, he made a polite offer of
to the little negro. But the little devil
not seem to fancy such dry sort of
at all; he never moved his lips. All
strange antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural
from the devotee, who seemed to be praying
a sing-song or else singing some pagan psalmody
other, during which his face twitched about in
most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire,
took the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged
again in his grego pocket as carelessly as
he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.
these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing
now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business
and jumping into bed with me, I thought
was high time, now or never, before the
was put out, to break the spell in
I had so long been bound. But the
I spent in deliberating what to say, was
fatal one. Taking up his tomahawk from the
he examined the head of it for an
and then holding it to the light, with
mouth at the handle, he puffed out great
of tobacco smoke. The next moment the light
extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his
sprang into bed with me. I sang out,
could not help it now; and giving a
grunt of astonishment he began feeling me. Stammering
something, I knew not what, I rolled away
him against the wall, and then conjured him,
or whatever he might be, to keep quiet,
let me get up and light the lamp
But his guttural responses satisfied me at once
he but ill comprehended my meaning. "Who-e debel
at last said—"you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e."
so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about
in the dark. "Landlord, for God's sake, Peter
shouted I. "Landlord! Watch! Coffin! Angels! save me!"
tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!"
growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of
tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me
I thought my linen would get on fire.
thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came
the room light in hand, and leaping from
bed I ran up to him. "Don't be
now," said he, grinning again, "Queequeg here wouldn't
a hair of your head." "Stop your grinning,"
I, "and why didn't you tell me that
infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?" "I thought ye
it;—didn't I tell ye, he was a peddlin'
around town?—but turn flukes again and go to
Queequeg, look here—you sabbee me, I sabbee—you this
sleepe you—you sabbee?" "Me sabbee plenty"—grunted Queequeg, puffing
at his pipe and sitting up in bed.
gettee in," he added, motioning to me with
tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side.
really did this in not only a civil
a really kind and charitable way. I stood
at him a moment. For all his tattooings
was on the whole a clean, comely looking
What's all this fuss I have been making
thought I to myself—the man's a human being
as I am: he has just as much
to fear me, as I have to be
of him. Better sleep with a sober cannibal
a drunken Christian. "Landlord," said I, "tell him
stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever
call it; tell him to stop smoking, in
and I will turn in with him. But
don't fancy having a man smoking in bed
me. It's dangerous. Besides, I ain't insured." This
told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and
politely motioned me to get into bed—rolling over
one side as much as to say—"I won't
a leg of ye." "Good night, landlord," said
"you may go." I turned in, and never
better in my life. CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.
waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg's
thrown over me in the most loving and
manner. You had almost thought I had been
wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of
little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm
his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan
of a figure, no two parts of which
of one precise shade—owing I suppose to his
his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and
his shirt sleeves irregularly rolled up at various
same arm of his, I say, looked for
the world like a strip of that same
quilt. Indeed, partly lying on it as the
did when I first awoke, I could hardly
it from the quilt, they so blended their
together; and it was only by the sense
weight and pressure that I could tell that
was hugging me. My sensations were strange. Let
try to explain them. When I was a
I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that
me; whether it was a reality or a
I never could entirely settle. The circumstance was
I had been cutting up some caper or
think it was trying to crawl up the
as I had seen a little sweep do
few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow
other, was all the time whipping me, or
me to bed supperless,—my mother dragged me by
legs out of the chimney and packed me
to bed, though it was only two o'clock
the afternoon of the 21st June, the longest
in the year in our hemisphere. I felt
But there was no help for it, so
stairs I went to my little room in
third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible
as to kill time, and with a bitter
got between the sheets. I lay there dismally
that sixteen entire hours must elapse before I
hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed!
small of my back ached to think of
And it was so light too; the sun
in at the window, and a great rattling
coaches in the streets, and the sound of
voices all over the house. I felt worse
worse—at last I got up, dressed, and softly
down in my stockinged feet, sought out my
and suddenly threw myself at her feet, beseeching
as a particular favour to give me a
slippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning
to lie abed such an unendurable length of
But she was the best and most conscientious
stepmothers, and back I had to go to
room. For several hours I lay there broad
feeling a great deal worse than I have
done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes.
last I must have fallen into a troubled
of a doze; and slowly waking from it—half
in dreams—I opened my eyes, and the before
room was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly
felt a shock running through all my frame;
was to be seen, and nothing was to
heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in
My arm hung over the counterpane, and the
unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the
belonged, seemed closely seated by my bed-side. For
seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there,
with the most awful fears, not daring to
away my hand; yet ever thinking that if
could but stir it one single inch, the
spell would be broken. I knew not how
consciousness at last glided away from me; but
in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all,
for days and weeks and months afterwards I
myself in confounding attempts to explain the mystery.
to this very hour, I often puzzle myself
it. Now, take away the awful fear, and
sensations at feeling the supernatural hand in mine
very similar, in their strangeness, to those which
experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan
thrown round me. But at length all the
night's events soberly recurred, one by one, in
reality, and then I lay only alive to
comical predicament. For though I tried to move
arm—unlock his bridegroom clasp—yet, sleeping as he was,
still hugged me tightly, as though naught but
should part us twain. I now strove to
him—"Queequeg!"—but his only answer was a snore. I
rolled over, my neck feeling as if it
in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight
Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk
by the savage's side, as if it were
hatchet-faced baby. A pretty pickle, truly, thought I;
here in a strange house in the broad
with a cannibal and a tomahawk! "Queequeg!—in the
of goodness, Queequeg, wake!" At length, by dint
much wriggling, and loud and incessant expostulations upon
unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in
matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in extracting
grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm,
himself all over like a Newfoundland dog just
the water, and sat up in bed, stiff
a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his
as if he did not altogether remember how
came to be there, though a dim consciousness
knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over
Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no
misgivings now, and bent upon narrowly observing so
a creature. When, at last, his mind seemed
up touching the character of his bedfellow, and
became, as it were, reconciled to the fact;
jumped out upon the floor, and by certain
and sounds gave me to understand that, if
pleased me, he would dress first and then
me to dress afterwards, leaving the whole apartment
myself. Thinks I, Queequeg, under the circumstances, this
a very civilized overture; but, the truth is,
savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say
you will; it is marvellous how essentially polite
are. I pay this particular compliment to Queequeg,
he treated me with so much civility and
while I was guilty of great rudeness; staring
him from the bed, and watching all his
motions; for the time my curiosity getting the
of my breeding. Nevertheless, a man like Queequeg
don't see every day, he and his ways
well worth unusual regarding. He commenced dressing at
by donning his beaver hat, a very tall
by the by, and then—still minus his trowsers—he
up his boots. What under the heavens he
it for, I cannot tell, but his next
was to crush himself—boots in hand, and hat
the bed; when, from sundry violent gaspings and
I inferred he was hard at work booting
though by no law of propriety that I
heard of, is any man required to be
when putting on his boots. But Queequeg, do
see, was a creature in the transition stage—neither
nor butterfly. He was just enough civilized to
off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners.
education was not yet completed. He was an
If he had not been a small degree
he very probably would not have troubled himself
boots at all; but then, if he had
been still a savage, he never would have
of getting under the bed to put them
At last, he emerged with his hat very
dented and crushed down over his eyes, and
creaking and limping about the room, as if,
being much accustomed to boots, his pair of
wrinkled cowhide ones—probably not made to order either—rather
and tormented him at the first go off
a bitter cold morning. Seeing, now, that there
no curtains to the window, and that the
being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a
view into the room, and observing more and
the indecorous figure that Queequeg made, staving about
little else but his hat and boots on;
begged him as well as I could, to
his toilet somewhat, and particularly to get into
pantaloons as soon as possible. He complied, and
proceeded to wash himself. At that time in
morning any Christian would have washed his face;
Queequeg, to my amazement, contented himself with restricting
ablutions to his chest, arms, and hands. He
donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece
hard soap on the wash-stand centre table, dipped
into water and commenced lathering his face. I
watching to see where he kept his razor,
lo and behold, he takes the harpoon from
bed corner, slips out the long wooden stock,
the head, whets it a little on his
and striding up to the bit of mirror
the wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather
of his cheeks. Thinks I, Queequeg, this is
Rogers's best cutlery with a vengeance. Afterwards I
the less at this operation when I came
know of what fine steel the head of
harpoon is made, and how exceedingly sharp the
straight edges are always kept. The rest of
toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched
of the room, wrapped up in his great
monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon like a
baton. CHAPTER 5. Breakfast. I quickly followed suit,
descending into the bar-room accosted the grinning landlord
pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him, though
had been skylarking with me not a little
the matter of my bedfellow. However, a good
is a mighty good thing, and rather too
a good thing; the more's the pity. So,
any one man, in his own proper person,
stuff for a good joke to anybody, let
not be backward, but let him cheerfully allow
to spend and be spent in that way.
the man that has anything bountifully laughable about
be sure there is more in that man
you perhaps think for. The bar-room was now
of the boarders who had been dropping in
night previous, and whom I had not as
had a good look at. They were nearly
whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third
and sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea
and harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and
company, with bosky beards; an unshorn, shaggy set,
wearing monkey jackets for morning gowns. You could
plainly tell how long each one had been
This young fellow's healthy cheek is like a
pear in hue, and would seem to smell
as musky; he cannot have been three days
from his Indian voyage. That man next him
a few shades lighter; you might say a
of satin wood is in him. In the
of a third still lingers a tropic tawn,
slightly bleached withal; he doubtless has tarried whole
ashore. But who could show a cheek like
which, barred with various tints, seemed like the
western slope, to show forth in one array,
climates, zone by zone. "Grub, ho!" now cried
landlord, flinging open a door, and in we
to breakfast. They say that men who have
the world, thereby become quite at ease in
quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though: Ledyard,
great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the
one; of all men, they possessed the least
in the parlor. But perhaps the mere crossing
Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as
did, or the taking a long solitary walk
an empty stomach, in the negro heart of
which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances—this
of travel, I say, may not be the
best mode of attaining a high social polish.
for the most part, that sort of thing
to be had anywhere. These reflections just here
occasioned by the circumstance that after we were
seated at the table, and I was preparing
hear some good stories about whaling; to my
small surprise, nearly every man maintained a profound
And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.
here were a set of sea-dogs, many of
without the slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales
the high seas—entire strangers to them—and duelled them
without winking; and yet, here they sat at
social breakfast table—all of the same calling, all
kindred tastes—looking round as sheepishly at each other
though they had never been out of sight
some sheepfold among the Green Mountains. A curious
these bashful bears, these timid warrior whalemen! But
for Queequeg—why, Queequeg sat there among them—at the
of the table, too, it so chanced; as
as an icicle. To be sure I cannot
much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could
have cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into
with him, and using it there without ceremony;
over the table with it, to the imminent
of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards
But that was certainly very coolly done by
and every one knows that in most people's
to do anything coolly is to do it
We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities
how he eschewed coffee and hot rolls, and
his undivided attention to beefsteaks, done rare. Enough,
when breakfast was over he withdrew like the
into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and
sitting there quietly digesting and smoking with his
hat on, when I sallied out for a
CHAPTER 6. The Street. If I had been
at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish
individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society
a civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon
my first daylight stroll through the streets of
Bedford. In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable
will frequently offer to view the queerest looking
from foreign parts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut
Mediterranean mariners will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies.
Street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays;
at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live Yankees
often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats
Water Street and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts
see only sailors; but in New Bedford, actual
stand chatting at street corners; savages outright; many
whom yet carry on their bones unholy flesh.
makes a stranger stare. But, besides the Feegeeans,
Erromanggoans, Pannangians, and Brighggians, and, besides the wild
of the whaling-craft which unheeded reel about the
you will see other sights still more curious,
more comical. There weekly arrive in this town
of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all
for gain and glory in the fishery. They
mostly young, of stalwart frames; fellows who have
forests, and now seek to drop the axe
snatch the whale-lance. Many are as green as
Green Mountains whence they came. In some things
would think them but a few hours old.
there! that chap strutting round the corner. He
a beaver hat and swallow-tailed coat, girdled with
sailor-belt and sheath-knife. Here comes another with a
and a bombazine cloak. No town-bred dandy will
with a country-bred one—I mean a downright bumpkin
fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow his
acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning
hands. Now when a country dandy like this
it into his head to make a distinguished
and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see
comical things he does upon reaching the seaport.
bespeaking his sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his
straps to his canvas trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed!
bitterly will burst those straps in the first
gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
down the throat of the tempest. But think
that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals,
bumpkins to show her visitors. Not at all.
New Bedford is a queer place. Had it
been for us whalemen, that tract of land
this day perhaps have been in as howling
as the coast of Labrador. As it is,
of her back country are enough to frighten
they look so bony. The town itself is
the dearest place to live in, in all
England. It is a land of oil, true
but not like Canaan; a land, also, of
and wine. The streets do not run with
nor in the spring-time do they pave them
fresh eggs. Yet, in spite of this, nowhere
all America will you find more patrician-like houses;
and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford.
came they? how planted upon this once scraggy
of a country? Go and gaze upon the
emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty mansion, and your
will be answered. Yes; all these brave houses
flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and
oceans. One and all, they were harpooned and
up hither from the bottom of the sea.
Herr Alexander perform a feat like that? In
Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers
their daughters, and portion off their nieces with
few porpoises a-piece. You must go to New
to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say,
have reservoirs of oil in every house, and
night recklessly burn their lengths in spermaceti candles.
summer time, the town is sweet to see;
of fine maples—long avenues of green and gold.
in August, high in air, the beautiful and
horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by their tapering upright
of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is art; which
many a district of New Bedford has superinduced
terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks
aside at creation's final day. And the women
New Bedford, they bloom like their own red
But roses only bloom in summer; whereas the
carnation of their cheeks is perennial as sunlight
the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that bloom of
ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell
the young girls breathe such musk, their sailor
smell them miles off shore, as though they
drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of the
sands. CHAPTER 7. The Chapel. In this same
Bedford there stands a Whaleman's Chapel, and few
the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian
or Pacific, who fail to make a Sunday
to the spot. I am sure that I
not. Returning from my first morning stroll, I
sallied out upon this special errand. The sky
changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving sleet
mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of
cloth called bearskin, I fought my way against
stubborn storm. Entering, I found a small scattered
of sailors, and sailors' wives and widows. A
silence reigned, only broken at times by the
of the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely
apart from the other, as if each silent
were insular and incommunicable. The chaplain had not
arrived; and there these silent islands of men
women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with
borders, masoned into the wall on either side
pulpit. Three of them ran something like the
but I do not pretend to quote:— SACRED
THE MEMORY OF JOHN TALBOT, Who, at the
of eighteen, was lost overboard, Near the Isle
Desolation, off Patagonia, November 1st, 1836. THIS TABLET
erected to his Memory BY HIS SISTER. SACRED
THE MEMORY OF ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY, NATHAN
WALTER CANNY, SETH MACY, AND SAMUEL GLEIG, Forming
of the boats' crews OF THE SHIP ELIZA
were towed out of sight by a Whale,
the Off-shore Ground in the PACIFIC, December 31st,
THIS MARBLE Is here placed by their surviving
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF The late CAPTAIN
HARDY, Who in the bows of his boat
killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast
Japan, August 3d, 1833. THIS TABLET Is erected
his Memory BY HIS WIDOW. Shaking off the
from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated
near the door, and turning sideways was surprised
see Queequeg near me. Affected by the solemnity
the scene, there was a wondering gaze of
curiosity in his countenance. This savage was the
person present who seemed to notice my entrance;
he was the only one who could not
and, therefore, was not reading those frigid inscriptions
the wall. Whether any of the relatives of
seamen whose names appeared there were now among
congregation, I knew not; but so many are
unrecorded accidents in the fishery, and so plainly
several women present wear the countenance if not
trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel
that here before me were assembled those, in
unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak tablets
caused the old wounds to bleed afresh. Oh!
whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass;
standing among flowers can say—here, here lies my
ye know not the desolation that broods in
like these. What bitter blanks in those black-bordered
which cover no ashes! What despair in those
inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden infidelities in
lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith,
refuse resurrections to the beings who have placelessly
without a grave. As well might those tablets
in the cave of Elephanta as here. In
census of living creatures, the dead of mankind
included; why it is that a universal proverb
of them, that they tell no tales, though
more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it
that to his name who yesterday departed for
other world, we prefix so significant and infidel
word, and yet do not thus entitle him,
he but embarks for the remotest Indies of
living earth; why the Life Insurance Companies pay
upon immortals; in what eternal, unstirring paralysis, and
hopeless trance, yet lies antique Adam who died
round centuries ago; how it is that we
refuse to be comforted for those who we
maintain are dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all
living so strive to hush all the dead;
but the rumor of a knocking in a
will terrify a whole city. All these things
not without their meanings. But Faith, like a
feeds among the tombs, and even from these
doubts she gathers her most vital hope. It
scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on
eve of a Nantucket voyage, I regarded those
tablets, and by the murky light of that
doleful day read the fate of the whalemen
had gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, the same
may be thine. But somehow I grew merry
Delightful inducements to embark, fine chance for promotion,
seems—aye, a stove boat will make me an
by brevet. Yes, there is death in this
of whaling—a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a
into Eternity. But what then? Methinks we have
mistaken this matter of Life and Death. Methinks
what they call my shadow here on earth
my true substance. Methinks that in looking at
spiritual, we are too much like oysters observing
sun through the water, and thinking that thick
the thinnest of air. Methinks my body is
the lees of my better being. In fact
my body who will, take it I say,
is not me. And therefore three cheers for
and come a stove boat and stove body
they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself
CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit. I had not been
very long ere a man of a certain
robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted door flew
upon admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of
by all the congregation, sufficiently attested that this
old man was the chaplain. Yes, it was
famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen,
whom he was a very great favourite. He
been a sailor and a harpooneer in his
but for many years past had dedicated his
to the ministry. At the time I now
of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter
a healthy old age; that sort of old
which seems merging into a second flowering youth,
among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there
certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom—the
verdure peeping forth even beneath February's snow. No
having previously heard his history, could for the
time behold Father Mapple without the utmost interest,
there were certain engrafted clerical peculiarities about him,
to that adventurous maritime life he had led.
he entered I observed that he carried no
and certainly had not come in his carriage,
his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet,
his great pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to
him to the floor with the weight of
water it had absorbed. However, hat and coat
overshoes were one by one removed, and hung
in a little space in an adjacent corner;
arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached
pulpit. Like most old fashioned pulpits, it was
very lofty one, and since a regular stairs
such a height would, by its long angle
the floor, seriously contract the already small area
the chapel, the architect, it seemed, had acted
the hint of Father Mapple, and finished the
without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side ladder,
those used in mounting a ship from a
at sea. The wife of a whaling captain
provided the chapel with a handsome pair of
worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself
headed, and stained with a mahogany colour, the
contrivance, considering what manner of chapel it was,
by no means in bad taste. Halting for
instant at the foot of the ladder, and
both hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the
Father Mapple cast a look upwards, and then
a truly sailor-like but still reverential dexterity, hand
hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the
of his vessel. The perpendicular parts of this
ladder, as is usually the case with swinging
were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were
wood, so that at every step there was
joint. At my first glimpse of the pulpit,
had not escaped me that however convenient for
ship, these joints in the present instance seemed
For I was not prepared to see Father
after gaining the height, slowly turn round, and
over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder
by step, till the whole was deposited within,
him impregnable in his little Quebec. I pondered
time without fully comprehending the reason for this.
Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity
sanctity, that I could not suspect him of
notoriety by any mere tricks of the stage.
thought I, there must be some sober reason
this thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen.
it be, then, that by that act of
isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the
from all outward worldly ties and connexions? Yes,
replenished with the meat and wine of the
to the faithful man of God, this pulpit,
see, is a self-containing stronghold—a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with
perennial well of water within the walls. But
side ladder was not the only strange feature
the place, borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings.
the marble cenotaphs on either hand of the
the wall which formed its back was adorned
a large painting representing a gallant ship beating
a terrible storm off a lee coast of
rocks and snowy breakers. But high above the
scud and dark-rolling clouds, there floated a little
of sunlight, from which beamed forth an angel's
and this bright face shed a distinct spot
radiance upon the ship's tossed deck, something like
silver plate now inserted into the Victory's plank
Nelson fell. "Ah, noble ship," the angel seemed
say, "beat on, beat on, thou noble ship,
bear a hardy helm; for lo! the sun
breaking through; the clouds are rolling off—serenest azure
at hand." Nor was the pulpit itself without
trace of the same sea-taste that had achieved
ladder and the picture. Its panelled front was
the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and
Holy Bible rested on a projecting piece of
work, fashioned after a ship's fiddle-headed beak. What
be more full of meaning?—for the pulpit is
this earth's foremost part; all the rest comes
its rear; the pulpit leads the world. From
it is the storm of God's quick wrath
first descried, and the bow must bear the
brunt. From thence it is the God of
fair or foul is first invoked for favourable
Yes, the world's a ship on its passage
and not a voyage complete; and the pulpit
its prow. CHAPTER 9. The Sermon. Father Mapple
and in a mild voice of unassuming authority
the scattered people to condense. "Starboard gangway, there!
away to larboard—larboard gangway to starboard! Midships! midships!"
was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among
benches, and a still slighter shuffling of women's
and all was quiet again, and every eye
the preacher. He paused a little; then kneeling
the pulpit's bows, folded his large brown hands
his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and offered
prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling
praying at the bottom of the sea. This
in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling
a bell in a ship that is foundering
sea in a fog—in such tones he commenced
the following hymn; but changing his manner towards
concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation
joy— "The ribs and terrors in the whale,
over me a dismal gloom, While all God's
waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down
doom. "I saw the opening maw of hell,
endless pains and sorrows there; Which none but
that feel can tell— Oh, I was plunging
despair. "In black distress, I called my God,
I could scarce believe him mine, He bowed
ear to my complaints— No more the whale
me confine. "With speed he flew to my
As on a radiant dolphin borne; Awful, yet
as lightning shone The face of my Deliverer
"My song for ever shall record That terrible,
joyful hour; I give the glory to my
His all the mercy and the power." Nearly
joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high
the howling of the storm. A brief pause
the preacher slowly turned over the leaves of
Bible, and at last, folding his hand down
the proper page, said: "Beloved shipmates, clinch the
verse of the first chapter of Jonah—'And God
prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.'"
this book, containing only four chapters—four yarns—is one
the smallest strands in the mighty cable of
Scriptures. Yet what depths of the soul does
deep sealine sound! what a pregnant lesson to
is this prophet! What a noble thing is
canticle in the fish's belly! How billow-like and
grand! We feel the floods surging over us;
sound with him to the kelpy bottom of
waters; sea-weed and all the slime of the
is about us! But what is this lesson
the book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is
two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as
men, and a lesson to me as a
of the living God. As sinful men, it
a lesson to us all, because it is
story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly awakened fears,
swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally the deliverance
joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among
the sin of this son of Amittai was
his wilful disobedience of the command of God—never
now what that command was, or how conveyed—which
found a hard command. But all the things
God would have us do are hard for
to do—remember that—and hence, he oftener commands us
endeavors to persuade. And if we obey God,
must disobey ourselves; and it is in this
ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.
this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still
flouts at God, by seeking to flee from
He thinks that a ship made by men
carry him into countries where God does not
but only the Captains of this earth. He
about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a
that's bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a
unheeded meaning here. By all accounts Tarshish could
been no other city than the modern Cadiz.
the opinion of learned men. And where is
shipmates? Cadiz is in Spain; as far by
from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed
those ancient days, when the Atlantic was an
unknown sea. Because Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates,
on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean,
Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two
miles to the westward from that, just outside
Straits of Gibraltar. See ye not then, shipmates,
Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God? Miserable
Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn;
slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his
prowling among the shipping like a vile burglar
to cross the seas. So disordered, self-condemning is
look, that had there been policemen in those
Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong,
been arrested ere he touched a deck. How
he's a fugitive! no baggage, not a hat-box,
or carpet-bag,—no friends accompany him to the wharf
their adieux. At last, after much dodging search,
finds the Tarshish ship receiving the last items
her cargo; and as he steps on board
see its Captain in the cabin, all the
for the moment desist from hoisting in the
to mark the stranger's evil eye. Jonah sees
but in vain he tries to look all
and confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile.
intuitions of the man assure the mariners he
be no innocent. In their gamesome but still
way, one whispers to the other—"Jack, he's robbed
widow;" or, "Joe, do you mark him; he's
bigamist;" or, "Harry lad, I guess he's the
that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike,
of the missing murderers from Sodom." Another runs
read the bill that's stuck against the spile
the wharf to which the ship is moored,
five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of
parricide, and containing a description of his person.
reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill;
all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah,
to lay their hands upon him. Frighted Jonah
and summoning all his boldness to his face,
looks so much the more a coward. He
not confess himself suspected; but that itself is
suspicion. So he makes the best of it;
when the sailors find him not to be
man that is advertised, they let him pass,
he descends into the cabin. "'Who's there?' cries
Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making out
papers for the Customs—'Who's there?' Oh! how that
question mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost
to flee again. But he rallies. 'I seek
passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon
ye, sir?' Thus far the busy Captain had
looked up to Jonah, though the man now
before him; but no sooner does he hear
hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance.
sail with the next coming tide,' at last
slowly answered, still intently eyeing him. 'No sooner,
enough for any honest man that goes a
Ha! Jonah, that's another stab. But he swiftly
away the Captain from that scent. 'I'll sail
ye,'—he says,—'the passage money how much is that?—I'll
now.' For it is particularly written, shipmates, as
it were a thing not to be overlooked
this history, 'that he paid the fare thereof'
the craft did sail. And taken with the
this is full of meaning. "Now Jonah's Captain,
was one whose discernment detects crime in any,
whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless.
this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way
travel freely, and without a passport; whereas Virtue,
a pauper, is stopped at all frontiers. So
Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's
ere he judge him openly. He charges him
the usual sum; and it's assented to. Then
Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but
the same time resolves to help a flight
paves its rear with gold. Yet when Jonah
takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest
Captain. He rings every coin to find a
Not a forger, any way, he mutters; and
is put down for his passage. 'Point out
state-room, Sir,' says Jonah now, 'I'm travel-weary; I
sleep.' 'Thou lookest like it,' says the Captain,
thy room.' Jonah enters, and would lock the
but the lock contains no key. Hearing him
fumbling there, the Captain laughs lowly to himself,
mutters something about the doors of convicts' cells
never allowed to be locked within. All dressed
dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into
berth, and finds the little state-room ceiling almost
on his forehead. The air is close, and
gasps. Then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too,
the ship's water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment
that stifling hour, when the whale shall hold
in the smallest of his bowels' wards. "Screwed
its axis against the side, a swinging lamp
oscillates in Jonah's room; and the ship, heeling
towards the wharf with the weight of the
bales received, the lamp, flame and all, though
slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity with
to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight
it but made obvious the false, lying levels
which it hung. The lamp alarms and frightens
as lying in his berth his tormented eyes
round the place, and this thus far successful
finds no refuge for his restless glance. But
contradiction in the lamp more and more appals
The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are
awry. 'Oh! so my conscience hangs in me!'
groans, 'straight upwards, so it burns; but the
of my soul are all in crookedness!' "Like
who after a night of drunken revelry hies
his bed, still reeling, but with conscience yet
him, as the plungings of the Roman race-horse
so much the more strike his steel tags
him; as one who in that miserable plight
turns and turns in giddy anguish, praying God
annihilation until the fit be passed; and at
amid the whirl of woe he feels, a
stupor steals over him, as over the man
bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound,
there's naught to staunch it; so, after sore
in his berth, Jonah's prodigy of ponderous misery
him drowning down to sleep. "And now the
of tide has come; the ship casts off
cables; and from the deserted wharf the uncheered
for Tarshish, all careening, glides to sea. That
my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers!
contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he
not bear the wicked burden. A dreadful storm
on, the ship is like to break. But
when the boatswain calls all hands to lighten
when boxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard;
the wind is shrieking, and the men are
and every plank thunders with trampling feet right
Jonah's head; in all this raging tumult, Jonah
his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky
raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and
hears he or heeds he the far rush
the mighty whale, which even now with open
is cleaving the seas after him. Aye, shipmates,
was gone down into the sides of the
berth in the cabin as I have taken
and was fast asleep. But the frightened master
to him, and shrieks in his dead ear,
meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise!' Startled from his
by that direful cry, Jonah staggers to his
and stumbling to the deck, grasps a shroud,
look out upon the sea. But at that
he is sprung upon by a panther billow
over the bulwarks. Wave after wave thus leaps
the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs
fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh
drowning while yet afloat. And ever, as the
moon shows her affrighted face from the steep
in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the
bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward
towards the tormented deep. "Terrors upon terrors run
through his soul. In all his cringing attitudes,
God-fugitive is now too plainly known. The sailors
him; more and more certain grow their suspicions
him, and at last, fully to test the
by referring the whole matter to high Heaven,
fall to casting lots, to see for whose
this great tempest was upon them. The lot
Jonah's; that discovered, then how furiously they mob
with their questions. 'What is thine occupation? Whence
thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now,
shipmates, the behavior of poor Jonah. The eager
but ask him who he is, and where
whereas, they not only receive an answer to
questions, but likewise another answer to a question
put by them, but the unsolicited answer is
from Jonah by the hard hand of God
is upon him. "'I am a Hebrew,' he
then—'I fear the Lord the God of Heaven
hath made the sea and the dry land!'
him, O Jonah? Aye, well mightest thou fear
Lord God then! Straightway, he now goes on
make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became
and more appalled, but still are pitiful. For
Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since
but too well knew the darkness of his
wretched Jonah cries out to them to take
and cast him forth into the sea, for
knew that for his sake this great tempest
upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and
by other means to save the ship. But
in vain; the indignant gale howls louder; then,
one hand raised invokingly to God, with the
they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah. "And
behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and
into the sea; when instantly an oily calmness
out from the east, and the sea is
as Jonah carries down the gale with him,
smooth water behind. He goes down in the
heart of such a masterless commotion that he
heeds the moment when he drops seething into
yawning jaws awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to
his ivory teeth, like so many white bolts,
his prison. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord
of the fish's belly. But observe his prayer,
learn a weighty lesson. For sinful as he
Jonah does not weep and wail for direct
He feels that his dreadful punishment is just.
leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself
this, that spite of all his pains and
he will still look towards His holy temple.
here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance; not
for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how
to God was this conduct in Jonah, is
in the eventual deliverance of him from the
and the whale. Shipmates, I do not place
before you to be copied for his sin
I do place him before you as a
for repentance. Sin not; but if you do,
heed to repent of it like Jonah." While
was speaking these words, the howling of the
slanting storm without seemed to add new power
the preacher, who, when describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed
by a storm himself. His deep chest heaved
with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the
elements at work; and the thunders that rolled
from off his swarthy brow, and the light
from his eye, made all his simple hearers
on him with a quick fear that was
to them. There now came a lull in
look, as he silently turned over the leaves
the Book once more; and, at last, standing
with closed eyes, for the moment, seemed communing
God and himself. But again he leaned over
the people, and bowing his head lowly, with
aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he
these words: "Shipmates, God has laid but one
upon you; both his hands press upon me.
have read ye by what murky light may
mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all
and therefore to ye, and still more to
for I am a greater sinner than ye.
now how gladly would I come down from
mast-head and sit on the hatches there where
sit, and listen as you listen, while some
of you reads me that other and more
lesson which Jonah teaches to me, as a
of the living God. How being an anointed
or speaker of true things, and bidden by
Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the
of a wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at the
he should raise, fled from his mission, and
to escape his duty and his God by
ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere; Tarshish
never reached. As we have seen, God came
him in the whale, and swallowed him down
living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings
him along 'into the midst of the seas,'
the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand fathoms
and 'the weeds were wrapped about his head,'
all the watery world of woe bowled over
Yet even then beyond the reach of any
of the belly of hell'—when the whale grounded
the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God heard
engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried. Then God
unto the fish; and from the shuddering cold
blackness of the sea, the whale came breeching
towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all
delights of air and earth; and 'vomited out
upon the dry land;' when the word of
Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised
beaten—his ears, like two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring
the ocean—Jonah did the Almighty's bidding. And what
that, shipmates? To preach the Truth to the
of Falsehood! That was it! "This, shipmates, this
that other lesson; and woe to that pilot
the living God who slights it. Woe to
whom this world charms from Gospel duty! Woe
him who seeks to pour oil upon the
when God has brewed them into a gale!
to him who seeks to please rather than
appal! Woe to him whose good name is
to him than goodness! Woe to him who,
this world, courts not dishonour! Woe to him
would not be true, even though to be
were salvation! Yea, woe to him who, as
great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to
is himself a castaway!" He dropped and fell
from himself for a moment; then lifting his
to them again, showed a deep joy in
eyes, as he cried out with a heavenly
oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of every
there is a sure delight; and higher the
of that delight, than the bottom of the
is deep. Is not the main-truck higher than
kelson is low? Delight is to him—a far,
upward, and inward delight—who against the proud gods
commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his
inexorable self. Delight is to him whose strong
yet support him, when the ship of this
treacherous world has gone down beneath him. Delight
to him, who gives no quarter in the
and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though
pluck it out from under the robes of
and Judges. Delight,—top-gallant delight is to him, who
no law or lord, but the Lord his
and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight
to him, whom all the waves of the
of the seas of the boisterous mob can
shake from this sure Keel of the Ages.
eternal delight and deliciousness will be his, who
to lay him down, can say with his
breath—O Father!—chiefly known to me by Thy rod—mortal
immortal, here I die. I have striven to
Thine, more than to be this world's, or
own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity
Thee; for what is man that he should
out the lifetime of his God?" He said
more, but slowly waving a benediction, covered his
with his hands, and so remained kneeling, till
the people had departed, and he was left
in the place. CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.
to the Spouter-Inn from the Chapel, I found
there quite alone; he having left the Chapel
the benediction some time. He was sitting on
bench before the fire, with his feet on
stove hearth, and in one hand was holding
up to his face that little negro idol
his; peering hard into its face, and with
jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile
to himself in his heathenish way. But being
interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty
going to the table, took up a large
there, and placing it on his lap began
the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
I fancied—stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him,
giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of
He would then begin again at the next
seeming to commence at number one each time,
though he could not count more than fifty,
it was only by such a large number
fifties being found together, that his astonishment at
multitude of pages was excited. With much interest
sat watching him. Savage though he was, and
marred about the face—at least to my taste—his
yet had a something in it which was
no means disagreeable. You cannot hide the soul.
all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I saw
traces of a simple honest heart; and in
large, deep eyes, fiery black and bold, there
tokens of a spirit that would dare a
devils. And besides all this, there was a
lofty bearing about the Pagan, which even his
could not altogether maim. He looked like a
who had never cringed and never had had
creditor. Whether it was, too, that his head
shaved, his forehead was drawn out in freer
brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it
would, this I will not venture to decide;
certain it was his head was phrenologically an
one. It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded
of General Washington's head, as seen in the
busts of him. It had the same long
graded retreating slope from above the brows, which
likewise very projecting, like two long promontories thickly
on top. Queequeg was George Washington cannibalistically developed.
I was thus closely scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile
be looking out at the storm from the
he never heeded my presence, never troubled himself
so much as a single glance; but appeared
occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous
Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together
night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm
had found thrown over me upon waking in
morning, I thought this indifference of his very
But savages are strange beings; at times you
not know exactly how to take them. At
they are overawing; their calm self-collectedness of simplicity
a Socratic wisdom. I had noticed also that
never consorted at all, or but very little,
the other seamen in the inn. He made
advances whatever; appeared to have no desire to
the circle of his acquaintances. All this struck
as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there
something almost sublime in it. Here was a
some twenty thousand miles from home, by the
of Cape Horn, that is—which was the only
he could get there—thrown among people as strange
him as though he were in the planet
and yet he seemed entirely at his ease;
the utmost serenity; content with his own companionship;
equal to himself. Surely this was a touch
fine philosophy; though no doubt he had never
there was such a thing as that. But,
to be true philosophers, we mortals should not
conscious of so living or so striving. So
as I hear that such or such a
gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude
like the dyspeptic old woman, he must have
his digester." As I sat there in that
lonely room; the fire burning low, in that
stage when, after its first intensity has warmed
air, it then only glows to be looked
the evening shades and phantoms gathering round the
and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain;
storm booming without in solemn swells; I began
be sensible of strange feelings. I felt a
in me. No more my splintered heart and
hand were turned against the wolfish world. This
savage had redeemed it. There he sat, his
indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked
civilized hypocrisies and bland deceits. Wild he was;
very sight of sights to see; yet I
to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him. And
same things that would have repelled most others,
were the very magnets that thus drew me.
try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian
has proved but hollow courtesy. I drew my
near him, and made some friendly signs and
doing my best to talk with him meanwhile.
first he little noticed these advances; but presently,
my referring to his last night's hospitalities, he
out to ask me whether we were again
be bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I
he looked pleased, perhaps a little complimented. We
turned over the book together, and I endeavored
explain to him the purpose of the printing,
the meaning of the few pictures that were
it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and
that we went to jabbering the best we
about the various outer sights to be seen
this famous town. Soon I proposed a social
and, producing his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly
me a puff. And then we sat exchanging
from that wild pipe of his, and keeping
regularly passing between us. If there yet lurked
ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's
this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed
out, and left us cronies. He seemed to
to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as
to him; and when our smoke was over,
pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me round
waist, and said that henceforth we were married;
in his country's phrase, that we were bosom
he would gladly die for me, if need
be. In a countryman, this sudden flame of
would have seemed far too premature, a thing
be much distrusted; but in this simple savage
old rules would not apply. After supper, and
social chat and smoke, we went to our
together. He made me a present of his
head; took out his enormous tobacco wallet, and
under the tobacco, drew out some thirty dollars
silver; then spreading them on the table, and
dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one
them towards me, and said it was mine.
was going to remonstrate; but he silenced me
pouring them into my trowsers' pockets. I let
stay. He then went about his evening prayers,
out his idol, and removed the paper fireboard.
certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed
for me to join him; but well knowing
was to follow, I deliberated a moment whether,
case he invited me, I would comply or
I was a good Christian; born and bred
the bosom of the infallible Presbyterian Church. How
could I unite with this wild idolator in
his piece of wood? But what is worship?
I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the
God of heaven and earth—pagans and all included—can
be jealous of an insignificant bit of black
Impossible! But what is worship?—to do the will
God—that is worship. And what is the will
God?—to do to my fellow man what I
have my fellow man to do to me—that
the will of God. Now, Queequeg is my
man. And what do I wish that this
would do to me? Why, unite with me
my particular Presbyterian form of worship. Consequently, I
then unite with him in his; ergo, I
turn idolator. So I kindled the shavings; helped
up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt
with Queequeg; salamed before him twice or thrice;
his nose; and that done, we undressed and
to bed, at peace with our own consciences
all the world. But we did not go
sleep without some little chat. How it is
know not; but there is no place like
bed for confidential disclosures between friends. Man and
they say, there open the very bottom of
souls to each other; and some old couples
lie and chat over old times till nearly
Thus, then, in our hearts' honeymoon, lay I
Queequeg—a cosy, loving pair. CHAPTER 11. Nightgown. We
lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at
intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing
brown tattooed legs over mine, and then drawing
back; so entirely sociable and free and easy
we; when, at last, by reason of our
what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed,
we felt like getting up again, though day-break
yet some way down the future. Yes, we
very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent
began to grow wearisome, and by little and
we found ourselves sitting up; the clothes well
around us, leaning against the head-board with our
knees drawn up close together, and our two
bending over them, as if our kneepans were
We felt very nice and snug, the more
since it was so chilly out of doors;
out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was
fire in the room. The more so, I
because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small
of you must be cold, for there is
quality in this world that is not what
is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself.
you flatter yourself that you are all over
and have been so a long time, then
cannot be said to be comfortable any more.
if, like Queequeg and me in the bed,
tip of your nose or the crown of
head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in
general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably
For this reason a sleeping apartment should never
furnished with a fire, which is one of
luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the height
this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing
the blanket between you and your snugness and
cold of the outer air. Then there you
like the one warm spark in the heart
an arctic crystal. We had been sitting in
crouching manner for some time, when all at
I thought I would open my eyes; for
between sheets, whether by day or by night,
whether asleep or awake, I have a way
always keeping my eyes shut, in order the
to concentrate the snugness of being in bed.
no man can ever feel his own identity
except his eyes be closed; as if darkness
indeed the proper element of our essences, though
be more congenial to our clayey part. Upon
my eyes then, and coming out of my
pleasant and self-created darkness into the imposed and
outer gloom of the unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced
disagreeable revulsion. Nor did I at all object
the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it were
to strike a light, seeing that we were
wide awake; and besides he felt a strong
to have a few quiet puffs from his
Be it said, that though I had felt
a strong repugnance to his smoking in the
the night before, yet see how elastic our
prejudices grow when love once comes to bend
For now I liked nothing better than to
Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because
seemed to be full of such serene household
then. I no more felt unduly concerned for
landlord's policy of insurance. I was only alive
the condensed confidential comfortableness of sharing a pipe
a blanket with a real friend. With our
jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed
Tomahawk from one to the other, till slowly
grew over us a blue hanging tester of
illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.
it was that this undulating tester rolled the
away to far distant scenes, I know not,
he now spoke of his native island; and,
to hear his history, I begged him to
on and tell it. He gladly complied. Though
the time I but ill comprehended not a
of his words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I
become more familiar with his broken phraseology, now
me to present the whole story such as
may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
12. Biographical. Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko,
island far away to the West and South.
is not down in any map; true places
are. When a new-hatched savage running wild about
native woodlands in a grass clout, followed by
nibbling goats, as if he were a green
even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a
desire to see something more of Christendom than
specimen whaler or two. His father was a
Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest;
on the maternal side he boasted aunts who
the wives of unconquerable warriors. There was excellent
in his veins—royal stuff; though sadly vitiated, I
by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
youth. A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's
and Queequeg sought a passage to Christian lands.
the ship, having her full complement of seamen,
his suit; and not all the King his
influence could prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow.
in his canoe, he paddled off to a
strait, which he knew the ship must pass
when she quitted the island. On one side
a coral reef; on the other a low
of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew
into the water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat,
these thickets, with its prow seaward, he sat
in the stern, paddle low in hand; and
the ship was gliding by, like a flash
darted out; gained her side; with one backward
of his foot capsized and sank his canoe;
up the chains; and throwing himself at full
upon the deck, grappled a ring-bolt there, and
not to let it go, though hacked in
In vain the captain threatened to throw him
suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg
the son of a King, and Queequeg budged
Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and his wild
to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented,
told him he might make himself at home.
this fine young savage—this sea Prince of Wales,
saw the Captain's cabin. They put him down
the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.
like Czar Peter content to toil in the
of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no seeming ignominy,
thereby he might happily gain the power of
his untutored countrymen. For at bottom—so he told
was actuated by a profound desire to learn
the Christians, the arts whereby to make his
still happier than they were; and more than
still better than they were. But, alas! the
of whalemen soon convinced him that even Christians
be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so,
all his father's heathens. Arrived at last in
Sag Harbor; and seeing what the sailors did
and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing
they spent their wages in that place also,
Queequeg gave it up for lost. Thought he,
a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die
pagan. And thus an old idolator at heart,
yet lived among these Christians, wore their clothes,
tried to talk their gibberish. Hence the queer
about him, though now some time from home.
hints, I asked him whether he did not
going back, and having a coronation; since he
now consider his father dead and gone, he
very old and feeble at the last accounts.
answered no, not yet; and added that he
fearful Christianity, or rather Christians, had unfitted him
ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty
Kings before him. But by and by, he
he would return,—as soon as he felt himself
again. For the nonce, however, he proposed to
about, and sow his wild oats in all
oceans. They had made a harpooneer of him,
that barbed iron was in lieu of a
now. I asked him what might be his
purpose, touching his future movements. He answered, to
to sea again, in his old vocation. Upon
I told him that whaling was my own
and informed him of my intention to sail
of Nantucket, as being the most promising port
an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at
resolved to accompany me to that island, ship
the same vessel, get into the same watch,
same boat, the same mess with me, in
to share my every hap; with both my
in his, boldly dip into the Potluck of
worlds. To all this I joyously assented; for
the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he
an experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not
to be of great usefulness to one, who,
me, was wholly ignorant of the mysteries of
though well acquainted with the sea, as known
merchant seamen. His story being ended with his
last dying puff, Queequeg embraced me, pressed his
against mine, and blowing out the light, we
over from each other, this way and that,
very soon were sleeping. CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow. Next
Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to
barber, for a block, I settled my own
comrade's bill; using, however, my comrade's money. The
landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed amazingly
at the sudden friendship which had sprung up
me and Queequeg—especially as Peter Coffin's cock and
stories about him had previously so much alarmed
concerning the very person whom I now companied
We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things,
my own poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack
hammock, away we went down to "the Moss,"
little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the wharf.
we were going along the people stared; not
Queequeg so much—for they were used to seeing
like him in their streets,—but at seeing him
me upon such confidential terms. But we heeded
not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns,
Queequeg now and then stopping to adjust the
on his harpoon barbs. I asked him why
carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore,
whether all whaling ships did not find their
harpoons. To this, in substance, he replied, that
what I hinted was true enough, yet he
a particular affection for his own harpoon, because
was of assured stuff, well tried in many
mortal combat, and deeply intimate with the hearts
whales. In short, like many inland reapers and
who go into the farmers' meadows armed with
own scythes—though in no wise obliged to furnish
so, Queequeg, for his own private reasons, preferred
own harpoon. Shifting the barrow from my hand
his, he told me a funny story about
first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was
Sag Harbor. The owners of his ship, it
had lent him one, in which to carry
heavy chest to his boarding house. Not to
ignorant about the thing—though in truth he was
so, concerning the precise way in which to
the barrow—Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes
fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches
the wharf. "Why," said I, "Queequeg, you might
known better than that, one would think. Didn't
people laugh?" Upon this, he told me another
The people of his island of Rokovoko, it
at their wedding feasts express the fragrant water
young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like
punchbowl; and this punchbowl always forms the great
ornament on the braided mat where the feast
held. Now a certain grand merchant ship once
at Rokovoko, and its commander—from all accounts, a
stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea
commander was invited to the wedding feast of
sister, a pretty young princess just turned of
Well; when all the wedding guests were assembled
the bride's bamboo cottage, this Captain marches in,
being assigned the post of honour, placed himself
against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest
his majesty the King, Queequeg's father. Grace being
those people have their grace as well as
Queequeg told me that unlike us, who at
times look downwards to our platters, they, on
contrary, copying the ducks, glance upwards to the
Giver of all feasts—Grace, I say, being said,
High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial
of the island; that is, dipping his consecrated
consecrating fingers into the bowl before the blessed
circulates. Seeing himself placed next the Priest, and
the ceremony, and thinking himself—being Captain of a
having plain precedence over a mere island King,
in the King's own house—the Captain coolly proceeds
wash his hands in the punchbowl;—taking it I
for a huge finger-glass. "Now," said Queequeg, "what
tink now?—Didn't our people laugh?" At last, passage
and luggage safe, we stood on board the
Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river.
one side, New Bedford rose in terraces of
their ice-covered trees all glittering in the clear,
air. Huge hills and mountains of casks on
were piled upon her wharves, and side by
the world-wandering whale ships lay silent and safely
at last; while from others came a sound
carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires
forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that
cruises were on the start; that one most
and long voyage ended, only begins a second;
a second ended, only begins a third, and
on, for ever and for aye. Such is
endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort.
the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed
the little Moss tossed the quick foam from
bows, as a young colt his snortings. How
snuffed that Tartar air!—how I spurned that turnpike
common highway all over dented with the marks
slavish heels and hoofs; and turned me to
the magnanimity of the sea which will permit
records. At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to
and reel with me. His dusky nostrils swelled
he showed his filed and pointed teeth. On,
we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss
homage to the blast; ducked and dived her
as a slave before the Sultan. Sideways leaning,
sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like a wire;
two tall masts buckling like Indian canes in
tornadoes. So full of this reeling scene were
as we stood by the plunging bowsprit, that
some time we did not notice the jeering
of the passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled
two fellow beings should be so companionable; as
a white man were anything more dignified than
whitewashed negro. But there were some boobies and
there, who, by their intense greenness, must have
from the heart and centre of all verdure.
caught one of these young saplings mimicking him
his back. I thought the bumpkin's hour of
was come. Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage
him in his arms, and by an almost
dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily
the air; then slightly tapping his stern in
the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon his
while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted
tomahawk pipe and passed it to me for
puff. "Capting! Capting!" yelled the bumpkin, running towards
officer; "Capting, Capting, here's the devil." "Hallo, you
cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the
stalking up to Queequeg, "what in thunder do
mean by that? Don't you know you might
killed that chap?" "What him say?" said Queequeg,
he mildly turned to me. "He say," said
"that you came near kill-e that man there,"
to the still shivering greenhorn. "Kill-e," cried Queequeg,
his tattooed face into an unearthly expression of
"ah! him bevy small-e fish-e; Queequeg no kill-e
small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!" "Look you,"
the Captain, "I'll kill-e you, you cannibal, if
try any more of your tricks aboard here;
mind your eye." But it so happened just
that it was high time for the Captain
mind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon
main-sail had parted the weather-sheet, and the tremendous
was now flying from side to side, completely
the entire after part of the deck. The
fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was
overboard; all hands were in a panic; and
attempt snatching at the boom to stay it,
madness. It flew from right to left, and
again, almost in one ticking of a watch,
every instant seemed on the point of snapping
splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable
being done; those on deck rushed towards the
and stood eyeing the boom as if it
the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In
midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to
knees, and crawling under the path of the
whipped hold of a rope, secured one end
the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like
lasso, caught it round the boom as it
over his head, and at the next jerk,
spar was that way trapped, and all was
The schooner was run into the wind, and
the hands were clearing away the stern boat,
stripped to the waist, darted from the side
a long living arc of a leap. For
minutes or more he was seen swimming like
dog, throwing his long arms straight out before
and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through
freezing foam. I looked at the grand and
fellow, but saw no one to be saved.
greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from
water, Queequeg, now took an instant's glance around
and seeming to see just how matters were,
down and disappeared. A few minutes more, and
rose again, one arm still striking out, and
the other dragging a lifeless form. The boat
picked them up. The poor bumpkin was restored.
hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain
his pardon. From that hour I clove to
like a barnacle; yea, till poor Queequeg took
last long dive. Was there ever such unconsciousness?
did not seem to think that he at
deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous
He only asked for water—fresh water—something to wipe
brine off; that done, he put on dry
lighted his pipe, and leaning against the bulwarks,
mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be
to himself—"It's a mutual, joint-stock world, in all
We cannibals must help these Christians." CHAPTER 14.
Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the
so, after a fine run, we safely arrived
Nantucket. Nantucket! Take out your map and look
it. See what a real corner of the
it occupies; how it stands there, away off
more lonely than the Eddystone lighthouse. Look at
mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all beach,
a background. There is more sand there than
would use in twenty years as a substitute
blotting paper. Some gamesome wights will tell you
they have to plant weeds there, they don't
naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they
to send beyond seas for a spile to
a leak in an oil cask; that pieces
wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits
the true cross in Rome; that people there
toadstools before their houses, to get under the
in summer time; that one blade of grass
an oasis, three blades in a day's walk
prairie; that they wear quicksand shoes, something like
snow-shoes; that they are so shut up, belted
every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter
of by the ocean, that to their very
and tables small clams will sometimes be found
as to the backs of sea turtles. But
extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
now at the wondrous traditional story of how
island was settled by the red-men. Thus goes
legend. In olden times an eagle swooped down
the New England coast, and carried off an
Indian in his talons. With loud lament the
saw their child borne out of sight over
wide waters. They resolved to follow in the
direction. Setting out in their canoes, after a
passage they discovered the island, and there they
an empty ivory casket,—the poor little Indian's skeleton.
wonder, then, that these Nantucketers, born on a
should take to the sea for a livelihood!
first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand;
bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel;
experienced, they pushed off in boats and captured
and at last, launching a navy of great
on the sea, explored this watery world; put
incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in
Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all
declared everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass
has survived the flood; most monstrous and most
That Himmalehan, salt-sea Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness
unconscious power, that his very panics are more
be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious
And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea
issuing from their ant-hill in the sea, overrun
conquered the watery world like so many Alexanders;
out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian
as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let
add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon
let the English overswarm all India, and hang
their blazing banner from the sun; two thirds
this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's. For the
is his; he owns it, as Emperors own
other seamen having but a right of way
it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed
but floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though
the sea as highwaymen the road, they but
other ships, other fragments of the land like
without seeking to draw their living from the
deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone resides and
on the sea; he alone, in Bible language,
down to it in ships; to and fro
it as his own special plantation. There is
home; there lies his business, which a Noah's
would not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the
in China. He lives on the sea, as
cocks in the prairie; he hides among the
he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the
For years he knows not the land; so
when he comes to it at last, it
like another world, more strangely than the moon
to an Earthsman. With the landless gull, that
sunset folds her wings and is rocked to
between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out
sight of land, furls his sails, and lays
to his rest, while under his very pillow
herds of walruses and whales. CHAPTER 15. Chowder.
was quite late in the evening when the
Moss came snugly to anchor, and Queequeg and
went ashore; so we could attend to no
that day, at least none but a supper
a bed. The landlord of the Spouter-Inn had
us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of the
Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor
one of the best kept hotels in all
and moreover he had assured us that Cousin
as he called him, was famous for his
In short, he plainly hinted that we could
possibly do better than try pot-luck at the
Pots. But the directions he had given us
keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand
we opened a white church to the larboard,
then keeping that on the larboard hand till
made a corner three points to the starboard,
that done, then ask the first man we
where the place was: these crooked directions of
very much puzzled us at first, especially as,
the outset, Queequeg insisted that the yellow warehouse—our
point of departure—must be left on the larboard
whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say
was on the starboard. However, by dint of
about a little in the dark, and now
then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to inquire
way, we at last came to something which
was no mistaking. Two enormous wooden pots painted
and suspended by asses' ears, swung from the
of an old top-mast, planted in front of
old doorway. The horns of the cross-trees were
off on the other side, so that this
top-mast looked not a little like a gallows.
I was over sensitive to such impressions at
time, but I could not help staring at
gallows with a vague misgiving. A sort of
was in my neck as I gazed up
the two remaining horns; yes, two of them,
for Queequeg, and one for me. It's ominous,
I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in
first whaling port; tombstones staring at me in
whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows! and a
of prodigious black pots too! Are these last
out oblique hints touching Tophet? I was called
these reflections by the sight of a freckled
with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing
the porch of the inn, under a dull
lamp swinging there, that looked much like an
eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with
man in a purple woollen shirt. "Get along
ye," said she to the man, "or I'll
combing ye!" "Come on, Queequeg," said I, "all
There's Mrs. Hussey." And so it turned out;
Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs.
entirely competent to attend to all his affairs.
making known our desires for a supper and
bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing further scolding for the
ushered us into a little room, and seating
at a table spread with the relics of
recently concluded repast, turned round to us and
or Cod?" "What's that about Cods, ma'am?" said
with much politeness. "Clam or Cod?" she repeated.
clam for supper? a cold clam; is that
you mean, Mrs. Hussey?" says I, "but that's
rather cold and clammy reception in the winter
ain't it, Mrs. Hussey?" But being in a
hurry to resume scolding the man in the
Shirt, who was waiting for it in the
and seeming to hear nothing but the word
Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leading
the kitchen, and bawling out "clam for two,"
"Queequeg," said I, "do you think that we
make out a supper for us both on
clam?" However, a warm savory steam from the
served to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before
But when that smoking chowder came in, the
was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends! hearken to
It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely
than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit,
salted pork cut up into little flakes; the
enriched with butter, and plentifully seasoned with pepper
salt. Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishing
before him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent,
despatched it with great expedition: when leaning back
moment and bethinking me of Mrs. Hussey's clam
cod announcement, I thought I would try a
experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered
word "cod" with great emphasis, and resumed my
In a few moments the savoury steam came
again, but with a different flavor, and in
time a fine cod-chowder was placed before us.
resumed business; and while plying our spoons in
bowl, thinks I to myself, I wonder now
this here has any effect on the head?
that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people? "But look,
ain't that a live eel in your bowl?
your harpoon?" Fishiest of all fishy places was
Try Pots, which well deserved its name; for
pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for
and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper,
you began to look for fish-bones coming through
clothes. The area before the house was paved
clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of
vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account books
in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy
to the milk, too, which I could not
all account for, till one morning happening to
a stroll along the beach among some fishermen's
I saw Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish
and marching along the sand with each foot
a cod's decapitated head, looking very slip-shod, I
ye. Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and
from Mrs. Hussey concerning the nearest way to
but, as Queequeg was about to precede me
the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm,
demanded his harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in
chambers. "Why not?" said I; "every true whaleman
with his harpoon—but why not?" "Because it's dangerous,"
she. "Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four
and a half, with only three barrels of
was found dead in my first floor back,
his harpoon in his side; ever since then
allow no boarders to take sich dangerous weepons
their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg" (for
had learned his name), "I will just take
here iron, and keep it for you till
But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for
men?" "Both," says I; "and let's have a
of smoked herring by way of variety." CHAPTER
The Ship. In bed we concocted our plans
the morrow. But to my surprise and no
concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that
had been diligently consulting Yojo—the name of his
little god—and Yojo had told him two or
times over, and strongly insisted upon it everyway,
instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet
harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead
this, I say, Yojo earnestly enjoined that the
of the ship should rest wholly with me,
as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order
do so, had already pitched upon a vessel,
if left to myself, I, Ishmael, should infallibly
upon, for all the world as though it
turned out by chance; and in that vessel
must immediately ship myself, for the present irrespective
Queequeg. I have forgotten to mention that, in
things, Queequeg placed great confidence in the excellence
Yojo's judgment and surprising forecast of things; and
Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rather good
of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon
whole, but in all cases did not succeed
his benevolent designs. Now, this plan of Queequeg's,
rather Yojo's, touching the selection of our craft;
did not like that plan at all. I
not a little relied upon Queequeg's sagacity to
out the whaler best fitted to carry us
our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances
no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to
and accordingly prepared to set about this business
a determined rushing sort of energy and vigor,
should quickly settle that trifling little affair. Next
early, leaving Queequeg shut up with Yojo in
little bedroom—for it seemed that it was some
of Lent or Ramadan, or day of fasting,
and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo that day;
it was I never could find out, for,
I applied myself to it several times, I
could master his liturgies and XXXIX Articles—leaving Queequeg,
fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming
at his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied
among the shipping. After much prolonged sauntering and
random inquiries, I learnt that there were three
up for three-years' voyages—The Devil-dam, the Tit-bit, and
Pequod. Devil-Dam, I do not know the origin
Tit-bit is obvious; Pequod, you will no doubt
was the name of a celebrated tribe of
Indians; now extinct as the ancient Medes. I
and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her, hopped
to the Tit-bit; and finally, going on board
Pequod, looked around her for a moment, and
decided that this was the very ship for
You may have seen many a quaint craft
your day, for aught I know;—square-toed luggers; mountainous
junks; butter-box galliots, and what not; but take
word for it, you never saw such a
old craft as this same rare old Pequod.
was a ship of the old school, rather
if anything; with an old-fashioned claw-footed look about
Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons and
of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion
darkened like a French grenadier's, who has alike
in Egypt and Siberia. Her venerable bows looked
Her masts—cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
her original ones were lost overboard in a
masts stood stiffly up like the spines of
three old kings of Cologne. Her ancient decks
worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped flag-stone in
Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all these
old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features,
to the wild business that for more than
a century she had followed. Old Captain Peleg,
years her chief-mate, before he commanded another vessel
his own, and now a retired seaman, and
of the principal owners of the Pequod,—this old
during the term of his chief-mateship, had built
her original grotesqueness, and inlaid it, all over,
a quaintness both of material and device, unmatched
anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's carved buckler or
She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor,
neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory. She
a thing of trophies. A cannibal of a
tricking herself forth in the chased bones of
enemies. All round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were
like one continuous jaw, with the long sharp
of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins,
fasten her old hempen thews and tendons to.
thews ran not through base blocks of land
but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory. Scorning
turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported
a tiller; and that tiller was in one
curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw
her hereditary foe. The helmsman who steered by
tiller in a tempest, felt like the Tartar,
he holds back his fiery steed by clutching
jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a most
All noble things are touched with that. Now
I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one
authority, in order to propose myself as a
for the voyage, at first I saw nobody;
I could not well overlook a strange sort
tent, or rather wigwam, pitched a little behind
main-mast. It seemed only a temporary erection used
port. It was of a conical shape, some
feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs
limber black bone taken from the middle and
part of the jaws of the right-whale. Planted
their broad ends on the deck, a circle
these slabs laced together, mutually sloped towards each
and at the apex united in a tufted
where the loose hairy fibres waved to and
like the top-knot on some old Pottowottamie Sachem's
A triangular opening faced towards the bows of
ship, so that the insider commanded a complete
forward. And half concealed in this queer tenement,
at length found one who by his aspect
to have authority; and who, it being noon,
the ship's work suspended, was now enjoying respite
the burden of command. He was seated on
old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all over with curious
and the bottom of which was formed of
stout interlacing of the same elastic stuff of
the wigwam was constructed. There was nothing so
particular, perhaps, about the appearance of the elderly
I saw; he was brown and brawny, like
old seamen, and heavily rolled up in blue
cut in the Quaker style; only there was
fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest
interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen
his continual sailings in many hard gales, and
looking to windward;—for this causes the muscles about
eyes to become pursed together. Such eye-wrinkles are
effectual in a scowl. "Is this the Captain
the Pequod?" said I, advancing to the door
the tent. "Supposing it be the captain of
Pequod, what dost thou want of him?" he
"I was thinking of shipping." "Thou wast, wast
I see thou art no Nantucketer—ever been in
stove boat?" "No, Sir, I never have." "Dost
nothing at all about whaling, I dare say—eh?
Sir; but I have no doubt I shall
learn. I've been several voyages in the merchant
and I think that—" "Merchant service be damned.
not that lingo to me. Dost see that
take that leg away from thy stern, if
thou talkest of the marchant service to me
Marchant service indeed! I suppose now ye feel
proud of having served in those marchant ships.
flukes! man, what makes thee want to go
whaling, eh?—it looks a little suspicious, don't it,
not been a pirate, hast thou?—Didst not rob
last Captain, didst thou?—Dost not think of murdering
officers when thou gettest to sea?" I protested
innocence of these things. I saw that under
mask of these half humorous innuendoes, this old
as an insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of
insular prejudices, and rather distrustful of all aliens,
they hailed from Cape Cod or the Vineyard.
what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know
before I think of shipping ye." "Well, sir,
want to see what whaling is. I want
see the world." "Want to see what whaling
eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?"
is Captain Ahab, sir?" "Aye, aye, I thought
Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship."
am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking
the Captain himself." "Thou art speaking to Captain
who ye are speaking to, young man. It
to me and Captain Bildad to see the
fitted out for the voyage, and supplied with
her needs, including crew. We are part owners
agents. But as I was going to say,
thou wantest to know what whaling is, as
tellest ye do, I can put ye in
way of finding it out before ye bind
to it, past backing out. Clap eye on
Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that
has only one leg." "What do you mean,
Was the other one lost by a whale?"
by a whale! Young man, come nearer to
it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the
parmacetty that ever chipped a boat!—ah, ah!" I
a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also
little touched at the hearty grief in his
exclamation, but said as calmly as I could,
you say is no doubt true enough, sir;
how could I know there was any peculiar
in that particular whale, though indeed I might
inferred as much from the simple fact of
accident." "Look ye now, young man, thy lungs
a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou dost
talk shark a bit. Sure, ye've been to
before now; sure of that?" "Sir," said I,
thought I told you that I had been
voyages in the merchant—" "Hard down out of
Mind what I said about the marchant service—don't
me—I won't have it. But let us understand
other. I have given thee a hint about
whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for
"I do, sir." "Very good. Now, art thou
man to pitch a harpoon down a live
throat, and then jump after it? Answer, quick!"
am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable
do so; not to be got rid of,
is; which I don't take to be the
"Good again. Now then, thou not only wantest
go a-whaling, to find out by experience what
is, but ye also want to go in
to see the world? Was not that what
said? I thought so. Well then, just step
there, and take a peep over the weather-bow,
then back to me and tell me what
see there." For a moment I stood a
puzzled by this curious request, not knowing exactly
to take it, whether humorously or in earnest.
concentrating all his crow's feet into one scowl,
Peleg started me on the errand. Going forward
glancing over the weather bow, I perceived that
ship swinging to her anchor with the flood-tide,
now obliquely pointing towards the open ocean. The
was unlimited, but exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not
slightest variety that I could see. "Well, what's
report?" said Peleg when I came back; "what
ye see?" "Not much," I replied—"nothing but water;
horizon though, and there's a squall coming up,
think." "Well, what does thou think then of
the world? Do ye wish to go round
Horn to see any more of it, eh?
ye see the world where you stand?" I
a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must,
I would; and the Pequod was as good
ship as any—I thought the best—and all this
now repeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined,
expressed his willingness to ship me. "And thou
as well sign the papers right off," he
along with ye." And so saying, he led
way below deck into the cabin. Seated on
transom was what seemed to me a most
and surprising figure. It turned out to be
Bildad, who along with Captain Peleg was one
the largest owners of the vessel; the other
as is sometimes the case in these ports,
held by a crowd of old annuitants; widows,
children, and chancery wards; each owning about the
of a timber head, or a foot of
or a nail or two in the ship.
in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels,
same way that you do yours in approved
stocks bringing in good interest. Now, Bildad, like
and indeed many other Nantucketers, was a Quaker,
island having been originally settled by that sect;
to this day its inhabitants in general retain
an uncommon measure the peculiarities of the Quaker,
variously and anomalously modified by things altogether alien
heterogeneous. For some of these same Quakers are
most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. They
fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.
that there are instances among them of men,
named with Scripture names—a singularly common fashion on
island—and in childhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic
and thou of the Quaker idiom; still, from
audacious, daring, and boundless adventure of their subsequent
strangely blend with these unoutgrown peculiarities, a thousand
dashes of character, not unworthy a Scandinavian sea-king,
a poetical Pagan Roman. And when these things
in a man of greatly superior natural force,
a globular brain and a ponderous heart; who
also by the stillness and seclusion of many
night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath constellations
seen here at the north, been led to
untraditionally and independently; receiving all nature's sweet or
impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and
breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help
accidental advantages, to learn a bold and nervous
language—that man makes one in a whole nation's
mighty pageant creature, formed for noble tragedies. Nor
it at all detract from him, dramatically regarded,
either by birth or other circumstances, he have
seems a half wilful overruling morbidness at the
of his nature. For all men tragically great
made so through a certain morbidness. Be sure
this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is
disease. But, as yet we have not to
with such an one, but with quite another;
still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it
results again from another phase of the Quaker,
by individual circumstances. Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad
a well-to-do, retired whaleman. But unlike Captain Peleg—who
not a rush for what are called serious
and indeed deemed those self-same serious things the
of all trifles—Captain Bildad had not only been
educated according to the strictest sect of Nantucket
but all his subsequent ocean life, and the
of many unclad, lovely island creatures, round the
that had not moved this native born Quaker
single jot, had not so much as altered
angle of his vest. Still, for all this
was there some lack of common consistency about
Captain Peleg. Though refusing, from conscientious scruples, to
arms against land invaders, yet himself had illimitably
the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn
to human bloodshed, yet had he in his
coat, spilled tuns upon tuns of leviathan gore.
now in the contemplative evening of his days,
pious Bildad reconciled these things in the reminiscence,
do not know; but it did not seem
concern him much, and very probably he had
since come to the sage and sensible conclusion
a man's religion is one thing, and this
world quite another. This world pays dividends. Rising
a little cabin-boy in short clothes of the
drab, to a harpooneer in a broad shad-bellied
from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and captain, and
a ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted before,
concluded his adventurous career by wholly retiring from
life at the goodly age of sixty, and
his remaining days to the quiet receiving of
well-earned income. Now, Bildad, I am sorry to
had the reputation of being an incorrigible old
and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly
a curious story, that when he sailed the
Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving home, were
all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted
worn out. For a pious man, especially for
Quaker, he was certainly rather hard-hearted, to say
least. He never used to swear, though, at
men, they said; but somehow he got an
quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of
When Bildad was a chief-mate, to have his
eye intently looking at you, made you feel
nervous, till you could clutch something—a hammer or
marling-spike, and go to work like mad, at
or other, never mind what. Indolence and idleness
before him. His own person was the exact
of his utilitarian character. On his long, gaunt
he carried no spare flesh, no superfluous beard,
chin having a soft, economical nap to it,
the worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat. Such,
was the person that I saw seated on
transom when I followed Captain Peleg down into
cabin. The space between the decks was small;
there, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat
and never leaned, and this to save his
tails. His broad-brim was placed beside him; his
were stiffly crossed; his drab vesture was buttoned
to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he
absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume. "Bildad,"
Captain Peleg, "at it again, Bildad, eh? Ye
been studying those Scriptures, now, for the last
years, to my certain knowledge. How far ye
Bildad?" As if long habituated to such profane
from his old shipmate, Bildad, without noticing his
irreverence, quietly looked up, and seeing me, glanced
inquiringly towards Peleg. "He says he's our man,
said Peleg, "he wants to ship." "Dost thee?"
Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round
me. "I dost," said I unconsciously, he was
intense a Quaker. "What do ye think of
Bildad?" said Peleg. "He'll do," said Bildad, eyeing
and then went on spelling away at his
in a mumbling tone quite audible. I thought
the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially
Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed such
blusterer. But I said nothing, only looking round
sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest, and
forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink
him, and seated himself at a little table.
began to think it was high time to
with myself at what terms I would be
to engage for the voyage. I was already
that in the whaling business they paid no
but all hands, including the captain, received certain
of the profits called lays, and that these
were proportioned to the degree of importance pertaining
the respective duties of the ship's company. I
also aware that being a green hand at
my own lay would not be very large;
considering that I was used to the sea,
steer a ship, splice a rope, and all
I made no doubt that from all I
heard I should be offered at least the
lay—that is, the 275th part of the clear
proceeds of the voyage, whatever that might eventually
to. And though the 275th lay was what
call a rather long lay, yet it was
than nothing; and if we had a lucky
might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I
wear out on it, not to speak of
three years' beef and board, for which I
not have to pay one stiver. It might
thought that this was a poor way to
a princely fortune—and so it was, a very
way indeed. But I am one of those
never take on about princely fortunes, and am
content if the world is ready to board
lodge me, while I am putting up at
grim sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the
I thought that the 275th lay would be
the fair thing, but would not have been
had I been offered the 200th, considering I
of a broad-shouldered make. But one thing, nevertheless,
made me a little distrustful about receiving a
share of the profits was this: Ashore, I
heard something of both Captain Peleg and his
old crony Bildad; how that they being the
proprietors of the Pequod, therefore the other and
inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly the whole
of the ship's affairs to these two. And
did not know but what the stingy old
might have a mighty deal to say about
hands, especially as I now found him on
the Pequod, quite at home there in the
and reading his Bible as if at his
fireside. Now while Peleg was vainly trying to
a pen with his jack-knife, old Bildad, to
no small surprise, considering that he was such
interested party in these proceedings; Bildad never heeded
but went on mumbling to himself out of
book, "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon
where moth—" "Well, Captain Bildad," interrupted Peleg, "what
say, what lay shall we give this young
"Thou knowest best," was the sepulchral reply, "the
hundred and seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would
moth and rust do corrupt, but lay—'" Lay,
thought I, and such a lay! the seven
and seventy-seventh! Well, old Bildad, you are determined
I, for one, shall not lay up many
here below, where moth and rust do corrupt.
was an exceedingly long lay that, indeed; and
from the magnitude of the figure it might
first deceive a landsman, yet the slightest consideration
show that though seven hundred and seventy-seven is
pretty large number, yet, when you come to
a teenth of it, you will then see,
say, that the seven hundred and seventy-seventh part
a farthing is a good deal less than
hundred and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I
at the time. "Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,"
Peleg, "thou dost not want to swindle this
man! he must have more than that." "Seven
and seventy-seventh," again said Bildad, without lifting his
and then went on mumbling—"for where your treasure
there will your heart be also." "I am
to put him down for the three hundredth,"
Peleg, "do ye hear that, Bildad! The three
lay, I say." Bildad laid down his book,
turning solemnly towards him said, "Captain Peleg, thou
a generous heart; but thou must consider the
thou owest to the other owners of this
and orphans, many of them—and that if we
abundantly reward the labors of this young man,
may be taking the bread from those widows
those orphans. The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay,
Peleg." "Thou Bildad!" roared Peleg, starting up and
about the cabin. "Blast ye, Captain Bildad, if
had followed thy advice in these matters, I
afore now had a conscience to lug about
would be heavy enough to founder the largest
that ever sailed round Cape Horn." "Captain Peleg,"
Bildad steadily, "thy conscience may be drawing ten
of water, or ten fathoms, I can't tell;
as thou art still an impenitent man, Captain
I greatly fear lest thy conscience be but
leaky one; and will in the end sink
foundering down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg."
pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past
natural bearing, ye insult me. It's an all-fired
to tell any human creature that he's bound
hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again
me, and start my soul-bolts, but I'll—I'll—yes, I'll
a live goat with all his hair and
on. Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-coloured
of a wooden gun—a straight wake with ye!"
he thundered out this he made a rush
Bildad, but with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity,
for that time eluded him. Alarmed at this
outburst between the two principal and responsible owners
the ship, and feeling half a mind to
up all idea of sailing in a vessel
questionably owned and temporarily commanded, I stepped aside
the door to give egress to Bildad, who,
made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish
before the awakened wrath of Peleg. But to
astonishment, he sat down again on the transom
quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest
of withdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent
and his ways. As for Peleg, after letting
his rage as he had, there seemed no
left in him, and he, too, sat down
a lamb, though he twitched a little as
still nervously agitated. "Whew!" he whistled at last—"the
gone off to leeward, I think. Bildad, thou
to be good at sharpening a lance, mend
pen, will ye. My jack-knife here needs the
That's he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my
man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say? Well
down ye go here, Ishmael, for the three
lay." "Captain Peleg," said I, "I have a
with me who wants to ship too—shall I
him down to-morrow?" "To be sure," said Peleg.
him along, and we'll look at him." "What
does he want?" groaned Bildad, glancing up from
book in which he had again been burying
"Oh! never thee mind about that, Bildad," said
"Has he ever whaled it any?" turning to
"Killed more whales than I can count, Captain
"Well, bring him along then." And, after signing
papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that
had done a good morning's work, and that
Pequod was the identical ship that Yojo had
to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.
I had not proceeded far, when I began
bethink me that the Captain with whom I
to sail yet remained unseen by me; though,
in many cases, a whale-ship will be completely
out, and receive all her crew on board,
the captain makes himself visible by arriving to
command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged,
the shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief,
if the captain have a family, or any
concernment of that sort, he does not trouble
much about his ship in port, but leaves
to the owners till all is ready for
However, it is always as well to have
look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into
hands. Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring
Captain Ahab was to be found. "And what
thou want of Captain Ahab? It's all right
thou art shipped." "Yes, but I should like
see him." "But I don't think thou wilt
able to at present. I don't know exactly
the matter with him; but he keeps close
the house; a sort of sick, and yet
don't look so. In fact, he ain't sick;
no, he isn't well either. Any how, young
he won't always see me, so I don't
he will thee. He's a queer man, Captain
some think—but a good one. Oh, thou'lt like
well enough; no fear, no fear. He's a
ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak much;
when he does speak, then you may well
Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab's above the common;
been in colleges, as well as 'mong the
been used to deeper wonders than the waves;
his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than
His lance! aye, the keenest and the surest
out of all our isle! Oh! he ain't
Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; he's
boy; and Ahab of old, thou knowest, was
crowned king!" "And a very vile one. When
wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they
lick his blood?" "Come hither to me—hither, hither,"
Peleg, with a significance in his eye that
startled me. "Look ye, lad; never say that
board the Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain
did not name himself. 'Twas a foolish, ignorant
of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when
was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the
squaw Tistig, at Gayhead, said that the name
somehow prove prophetic. And, perhaps, other fools like
may tell thee the same. I wish to
thee. It's a lie. I know Captain Ahab
I've sailed with him as mate years ago;
know what he is—a good man—not a pious,
man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man—something
me—only there's a good deal more of him.
aye, I know that he was never very
and I know that on the passage home,
was a little out of his mind for
spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains
his bleeding stump that brought that about, as
one might see. I know, too, that ever
he lost his leg last voyage by that
whale, he's been a kind of moody—desperate moody,
savage sometimes; but that will all pass off.
once for all, let me tell thee and
thee, young man, it's better to sail with
moody good captain than a laughing bad one.
good-bye to thee—and wrong not Captain Ahab, because
happens to have a wicked name. Besides, my
he has a wife—not three voyages wedded—a sweet,
girl. Think of that; by that sweet girl
old man has a child: hold ye then
can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?
no, my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be,
has his humanities!" As I walked away, I
full of thoughtfulness; what had been incidentally revealed
me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a
wild vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow,
the time, I felt a sympathy and a
for him, but for I don't know what,
it was the cruel loss of his leg.
yet I also felt a strange awe of
but that sort of awe, which I cannot
all describe, was not exactly awe; I do
know what it was. But I felt it;
it did not disincline me towards him; though
felt impatience at what seemed like mystery in
so imperfectly as he was known to me
However, my thoughts were at length carried in
directions, so that for the present dark Ahab
my mind. CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan. As Queequeg's
or Fasting and Humiliation, was to continue all
I did not choose to disturb him till
night-fall; for I cherish the greatest respect towards
religious obligations, never mind how comical, and could
find it in my heart to undervalue even
congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or those
creatures in certain parts of our earth, who
a degree of footmanism quite unprecedented in other
bow down before the torso of a deceased
proprietor merely on account of the inordinate possessions
owned and rented in his name. I say,
good Presbyterian Christians should be charitable in these
and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to
mortals, pagans and what not, because of their
conceits on these subjects. There was Queequeg, now,
entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and
Ramadan;—but what of that? Queequeg thought he knew
he was about, I suppose; he seemed to
content; and there let him rest. All our
with him would not avail; let him be,
say: and Heaven have mercy on us all—Presbyterians
Pagans alike—for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked
the head, and sadly need mending. Towards evening,
I felt assured that all his performances and
must be over, I went up to his
and knocked at the door; but no answer.
tried to open it, but it was fastened
"Queequeg," said I softly through the key-hole:—all silent.
say, Queequeg! why don't you speak? It's I—Ishmael."
all remained still as before. I began to
alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant time;
thought he might have had an apoplectic fit.
looked through the key-hole; but the door opening
an odd corner of the room, the key-hole
was but a crooked and sinister one. I
only see part of the foot-board of the
and a line of the wall, but nothing
I was surprised to behold resting against the
the wooden shaft of Queequeg's harpoon, which the
the evening previous had taken from him, before
mounting to the chamber. That's strange, thought I;
at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder,
he seldom or never goes abroad without it,
he must be inside here, and no possible
"Queequeg!—Queequeg!"—all still. Something must have happened. Apoplexy! I
to burst open the door; but it stubbornly
Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions
the first person I met—the chamber-maid. "La! la!"
cried, "I thought something must be the matter.
went to make the bed after breakfast, and
door was locked; and not a mouse to
heard; and it's been just so silent ever
But I thought, may be, you had both
off and locked your baggage in for safe
La! la, ma'am!—Mistress! murder! Mrs. Hussey! apoplexy!"—and with
cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I following.
Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one
and a vinegar-cruet in the other, having just
away from the occupation of attending to the
and scolding her little black boy meantime. "Wood-house!"
I, "which way to it? Run for God's
and fetch something to pry open the door—the
axe! he's had a stroke; depend upon it!"—and
saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairs again
when Mrs. Hussey interposed the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet,
the entire castor of her countenance. "What's the
with you, young man?" "Get the axe! For
sake, run for the doctor, some one, while
pry it open!" "Look here," said the landlady,
putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have
hand free; "look here; are you talking about
open any of my doors?"—and with that she
my arm. "What's the matter with you? What's
matter with you, shipmate?" In as calm, but
a manner as possible, I gave her to
the whole case. Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to
side of her nose, she ruminated for an
then exclaimed—"No! I haven't seen it since I
it there." Running to a little closet under
landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and
told me that Queequeg's harpoon was missing. "He's
himself," she cried. "It's unfort'nate Stiggs done over
there goes another counterpane—God pity his poor mother!—it
be the ruin of my house. Has the
lad a sister? Where's that girl?—there, Betty, go
Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint
a sign, with—"no suicides permitted here, and no
in the parlor;"—might as well kill both birds
once. Kill? The Lord be merciful to his
What's that noise there? You, young man, avast
And running up after me, she caught me
I was again trying to force open the
"I don't allow it; I won't have my
spoiled. Go for the locksmith, there's one about
mile from here. But avast!" putting her hand
her side-pocket, "here's a key that'll fit, I
let's see." And with that, she turned it
the lock; but, alas! Queequeg's supplemental bolt remained
within. "Have to burst it open," said I,
was running down the entry a little, for
good start, when the landlady caught at me,
vowing I should not break down her premises;
I tore from her, and with a sudden
rush dashed myself full against the mark. With
prodigious noise the door flew open, and the
slamming against the wall, sent the plaster to
ceiling; and there, good heavens! there sat Queequeg,
cool and self-collected; right in the middle of
room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo
top of his head. He looked neither one
nor the other way, but sat like a
image with scarce a sign of active life.
said I, going up to him, "Queequeg, what's
matter with you?" "He hain't been a sittin'
all day, has he?" said the landlady. But
we said, not a word could we drag
of him; I almost felt like pushing him
so as to change his position, for it
almost intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally
especially, as in all probability he had been
so for upwards of eight or ten hours,
too without his regular meals. "Mrs. Hussey," said
"he's alive at all events; so leave us,
you please, and I will see to this
affair myself." Closing the door upon the landlady,
endeavored to prevail upon Queequeg to take a
but in vain. There he sat; and all
could do—for all my polite arts and blandishments—he
not move a peg, nor say a single
nor even look at me, nor notice my
in the slightest way. I wonder, thought I,
this can possibly be a part of his
do they fast on their hams that way
his native island. It must be so; yes,
part of his creed, I suppose; well, then,
him rest; he'll get up sooner or later,
doubt. It can't last for ever, thank God,
his Ramadan only comes once a year; and
don't believe it's very punctual then. I went
to supper. After sitting a long time listening
the long stories of some sailors who had
come from a plum-pudding voyage, as they called
(that is, a short whaling-voyage in a schooner
brig, confined to the north of the line,
the Atlantic Ocean only); after listening to these
till nearly eleven o'clock, I went up stairs
go to bed, feeling quite sure by this
Queequeg must certainly have brought his Ramadan to
termination. But no; there he was just where
had left him; he had not stirred an
I began to grow vexed with him; it
so downright senseless and insane to be sitting
all day and half the night on his
in a cold room, holding a piece of
on his head. "For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get
and shake yourself; get up and have some
You'll starve; you'll kill yourself, Queequeg." But not
word did he reply. Despairing of him, therefore,
determined to go to bed and to sleep;
no doubt, before a great while, he would
me. But previous to turning in, I took
heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him,
it promised to be a very cold night;
he had nothing but his ordinary round jacket
For some time, do all I would, I
not get into the faintest doze. I had
out the candle; and the mere thought of
four feet off—sitting there in that uneasy position,
alone in the cold and dark; this made
really wretched. Think of it; sleeping all night
the same room with a wide awake pagan
his hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan! But
I dropped off at last, and knew nothing
till break of day; when, looking over the
there squatted Queequeg, as if he had been
down to the floor. But as soon as
first glimpse of sun entered the window, up
got, with stiff and grating joints, but with
cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay;
his forehead again against mine; and said his
was over. Now, as I before hinted, I
no objection to any person's religion, be it
it may, so long as that person does
kill or insult any other person, because that
person don't believe it also. But when a
religion becomes really frantic; when it is a
torment to him; and, in fine, makes this
of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in;
I think it high time to take that
aside and argue the point with him. And
so I now did with Queequeg. "Queequeg," said
"get into bed now, and lie and listen
me." I then went on, beginning with the
and progress of the primitive religions, and coming
to the various religions of the present time,
which time I labored to show Queequeg that
these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in cold,
rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health;
for the soul; opposed, in short, to the
laws of Hygiene and common sense. I told
too, that he being in other things such
extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me,
badly pained me, to see him now so
foolish about this ridiculous Ramadan of his. Besides,
I, fasting makes the body cave in; hence
spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of
fast must necessarily be half-starved. This is the
why most dyspeptic religionists cherish such melancholy notions
their hereafters. In one word, Queequeg, said I,
digressively; hell is an idea first born on
undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the
dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans. I then asked Queequeg
he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia; expressing
idea very plainly, so that he could take
in. He said no; only upon one memorable
It was after a great feast given by
father the king, on the gaining of a
battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been
by about two o'clock in the afternoon, and
cooked and eaten that very evening. "No more,
said I, shuddering; "that will do;" for I
the inferences without his further hinting them. I
seen a sailor who had visited that very
and he told me that it was the
when a great battle had been gained there,
barbecue all the slain in the yard or
of the victor; and then, one by one,
were placed in great wooden trenchers, and garnished
like a pilau, with breadfruit and cocoanuts; and
some parsley in their mouths, were sent round
the victor's compliments to all his friends, just
though these presents were so many Christmas turkeys.
all, I do not think that my remarks
religion made much impression upon Queequeg. Because, in
first place, he somehow seemed dull of hearing
that important subject, unless considered from his own
of view; and, in the second place, he
not more than one third understand me, couch
ideas simply as I would; and, finally, he
doubt thought he knew a good deal more
the true religion than I did. He looked
me with a sort of condescending concern and
as though he thought it a great pity
such a sensible young man should be so
lost to evangelical pagan piety. At last we
and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty
of chowders of all sorts, so that the
should not make much profit by reason of
Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod,
along, and picking our teeth with halibut bones.
18. His Mark. As we were walking down
end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequeg
his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff voice
hailed us from his wigwam, saying he had
suspected my friend was a cannibal, and furthermore
that he let no cannibals on board that
unless they previously produced their papers. "What do
mean by that, Captain Peleg?" said I, now
on the bulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing
the wharf. "I mean," he replied, "he must
his papers." "Yes," said Captain Bildad in his
voice, sticking his head from behind Peleg's, out
the wigwam. "He must show that he's converted.
of darkness," he added, turning to Queequeg, "art
at present in communion with any Christian church?"
said I, "he's a member of the first
Church." Here be it said, that many tattooed
sailing in Nantucket ships at last come to
converted into the churches. "First Congregational Church," cried
"what! that worships in Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?"
so saying, taking out his spectacles, he rubbed
with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and putting
on very carefully, came out of the wigwam,
leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good
look at Queequeg. "How long hath he been
member?" he then said, turning to me; "not
long, I rather guess, young man." "No," said
"and he hasn't been baptized right either, or
would have washed some of that devil's blue
his face." "Do tell, now," cried Bildad, "is
Philistine a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy's meeting?
never saw him going there, and I pass
every Lord's day." "I don't know anything about
Deuteronomy or his meeting," said I; "all I
is, that Queequeg here is a born member
the First Congregational Church. He is a deacon
Queequeg is." "Young man," said Bildad sternly, "thou
skylarking with me—explain thyself, thou young Hittite. What
dost thee mean? answer me." Finding myself thus
pushed, I replied. "I mean, sir, the same
Catholic Church to which you and I, and
Peleg there, and Queequeg here, and all of
and every mother's son and soul of us
the great and everlasting First Congregation of this
worshipping world; we all belong to that; only
of us cherish some queer crotchets no ways
the grand belief; in that we all join
"Splice, thou mean'st splice hands," cried Peleg, drawing
"Young man, you'd better ship for a missionary,
of a fore-mast hand; I never heard a
sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy—why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat
and he's reckoned something. Come aboard, come aboard;
mind about the papers. I say, tell Quohog
that you call him? tell Quohog to step
By the great anchor, what a harpoon he's
there! looks like good stuff that; and he
it about right. I say, Quohog, or whatever
name is, did you ever stand in the
of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a
Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild
of way, jumped upon the bulwarks, from thence
the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging
the side; and then bracing his left knee,
poising his harpoon, cried out in some such
as this:— "Cap'ain, you see him small drop
on water dere? You see him? well, spose
one whale eye, well, den!" and taking sharp
at it, he darted the iron right over
Bildad's broad brim, clean across the ship's decks,
struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.
said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, "spos-ee
whale-e eye; why, dad whale dead." "Quick, Bildad,"
Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the close
of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the
gangway. "Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get
ship's papers. We must have Hedgehog there, I
Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye,
we'll give ye the ninetieth lay, and that's
than ever was given a harpooneer yet out
Nantucket." So down we went into the cabin,
to my great joy Queequeg was soon enrolled
the same ship's company to which I myself
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had
everything ready for signing, he turned to me
said, "I guess, Quohog there don't know how
write, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye!
thou sign thy name or make thy mark?"
at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or
before taken part in similar ceremonies, looked no
abashed; but taking the offered pen, copied upon
paper, in the proper place, an exact counterpart
a queer round figure which was tattooed upon
arm; so that through Captain Peleg's obstinate mistake
his appellative, it stood something like this:— Quohog.
X mark. Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and
eyeing Queequeg, and at last rising solemnly and
in the huge pockets of his broad-skirted drab
took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting
entitled "The Latter Day Coming; or No Time
Lose," placed it in Queequeg's hands, and then
them and the book with both his, looked
into his eyes, and said, "Son of darkness,
must do my duty by thee; I am
owner of this ship, and feel concerned for
souls of all its crew; if thou still
to thy Pagan ways, which I sadly fear,
beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial
Spurn the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon;
from the wrath to come; mind thine eye,
say; oh! goodness gracious! steer clear of the
pit!" Something of the salt sea yet lingered
old Bildad's language, heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and
phrases. "Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now
our harpooneer," cried Peleg. "Pious harpooneers never make
voyagers—it takes the shark out of 'em; no
is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.
was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header
of all Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined
meeting, and never came to good. He got
frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked
sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps,
case he got stove and went to Davy
"Peleg! Peleg!" said Bildad, lifting his eyes and
"thou thyself, as I myself, hast seen many
perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is
have the fear of death; how, then, can'st
prate in this ungodly guise. Thou beliest thine
heart, Peleg. Tell me, when this same Pequod
had her three masts overboard in that typhoon
Japan, that same voyage when thou went mate
Captain Ahab, did'st thou not think of Death
the Judgment then?" "Hear him, hear him now,"
Peleg, marching across the cabin, and thrusting his
far down into his pockets,—"hear him, all of
Think of that! When every moment we thought
ship would sink! Death and the Judgment then?
With all three masts making such an everlasting
against the side; and every sea breaking over
fore and aft. Think of Death and the
then? No! no time to think about Death
Life was what Captain Ahab and I was
of; and how to save all hands—how to
jury-masts—how to get into the nearest port; that
what I was thinking of." Bildad said no
but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck,
we followed him. There he stood, very quietly
some sailmakers who were mending a top-sail in
waist. Now and then he stooped to pick
a patch, or save an end of tarred
which otherwise might have been wasted. CHAPTER 19.
Prophet. "Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?"
and I had just left the Pequod, and
sauntering away from the water, for the moment
occupied with his own thoughts, when the above
were put to us by a stranger, who,
before us, levelled his massive forefinger at the
in question. He was but shabbily apparelled in
jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a
handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent small-pox had
all directions flowed over his face, and left
like the complicated ribbed bed of a torrent,
the rushing waters have been dried up. "Have
shipped in her?" he repeated. "You mean the
Pequod, I suppose," said I, trying to gain
little more time for an uninterrupted look at
"Aye, the Pequod—that ship there," he said, drawing
his whole arm, and then rapidly shoving it
out from him, with the fixed bayonet of
pointed finger darted full at the object. "Yes,"
I, "we have just signed the articles." "Anything
there about your souls?" "About what?" "Oh, perhaps
hav'n't got any," he said quickly. "No matter
I know many chaps that hav'n't got any,—good
to 'em; and they are all the better
for it. A soul's a sort of a
wheel to a wagon." "What are you jabbering
shipmate?" said I. "He's got enough, though, to
up for all deficiencies of that sort in
chaps," abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous
upon the word he. "Queequeg," said I, "let's
this fellow has broken loose from somewhere; he's
about something and somebody we don't know." "Stop!"
the stranger. "Ye said true—ye hav'n't seen Old
yet, have ye?" "Who's Old Thunder?" said I,
riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner.
Ahab." "What! the captain of our ship, the
"Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps,
goes by that name. Ye hav'n't seen him
have ye?" "No, we hav'n't. He's sick they
but is getting better, and will be all
again before long." "All right again before long!"
the stranger, with a solemnly derisive sort of
"Look ye; when Captain Ahab is all right,
this left arm of mine will be all
not before." "What do you know about him?"
did they tell you about him? Say that!"
didn't tell much of anything about him; only
heard that he's a good whale-hunter, and a
captain to his crew." "That's true, that's true—yes,
true enough. But you must jump when he
an order. Step and growl; growl and go—that's
word with Captain Ahab. But nothing about that
that happened to him off Cape Horn, long
when he lay like dead for three days
nights; nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the
afore the altar in Santa?—heard nothing about that,
Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into?
nothing about his losing his leg last voyage,
to the prophecy. Didn't ye hear a word
them matters and something more, eh? No, I
think ye did; how could ye? Who knows
Not all Nantucket, I guess. But hows'ever, mayhap,
heard tell about the leg, and how he
it; aye, ye have heard of that, I
say. Oh yes, that every one knows a'most—I
they know he's only one leg; and that
parmacetti took the other off." "My friend," said
"what all this gibberish of yours is about,
don't know, and I don't much care; for
seems to me that you must be a
damaged in the head. But if you are
of Captain Ahab, of that ship there, the
then let me tell you, that I know
about the loss of his leg." "All about
eh—sure you do?—all?" "Pretty sure." With finger pointed
eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like stranger
a moment, as if in a troubled reverie;
starting a little, turned and said:—"Ye've shipped, have
Names down on the papers? Well, well, what's
is signed; and what's to be, will be;
then again, perhaps it won't be, after all.
it's all fixed and arranged a'ready; and some
or other must go with him, I suppose;
well these as any other men, God pity
Morning to ye, shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens
ye; I'm sorry I stopped ye." "Look here,
said I, "if you have anything important to
us, out with it; but if you are
trying to bamboozle us, you are mistaken in
game; that's all I have to say." "And
said very well, and I like to hear
chap talk up that way; you are just
man for him—the likes of ye. Morning to
shipmates, morning! Oh! when ye get there, tell
I've concluded not to make one of 'em."
my dear fellow, you can't fool us that
can't fool us. It is the easiest thing
the world for a man to look as
he had a great secret in him." "Morning
ye, shipmates, morning." "Morning it is," said I.
along, Queequeg, let's leave this crazy man. But
tell me your name, will you?" "Elijah." Elijah!
I, and we walked away, both commenting, after
other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and
that he was nothing but a humbug, trying
be a bugbear. But we had not gone
above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn
corner, and looking back as I did so,
should be seen but Elijah following us, though
a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck
so, that I said nothing to Queequeg of
being behind, but passed on with my comrade,
to see whether the stranger would turn the
corner that we did. He did; and then
seemed to me that he was dogging us,
with what intent I could not for the
of me imagine. This circumstance, coupled with his
half-hinting, half-revealing, shrouded sort of talk, now begat
me all kinds of vague wonderments and half-apprehensions,
all connected with the Pequod; and Captain Ahab;
the leg he had lost; and the Cape
fit; and the silver calabash; and what Captain
had said of him, when I left the
the day previous; and the prediction of the
Tistig; and the voyage we had bound ourselves
sail; and a hundred other shadowy things. I
resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah
really dogging us or not, and with that
crossed the way with Queequeg, and on that
of it retraced our steps. But Elijah passed
without seeming to notice us. This relieved me;
once more, and finally as it seemed to
I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
20. All Astir. A day or two passed,
there was great activity aboard the Pequod. Not
were the old sails being mended, but new
were coming on board, and bolts of canvas,
coils of rigging; in short, everything betokened that
ship's preparations were hurrying to a close. Captain
seldom or never went ashore, but sat in
wigwam keeping a sharp look-out upon the hands:
did all the purchasing and providing at the
and the men employed in the hold and
the rigging were working till long after night-fall.
the day following Queequeg's signing the articles, word
given at all the inns where the ship's
were stopping, that their chests must be on
before night, for there was no telling how
the vessel might be sailing. So Queequeg and
got down our traps, resolving, however, to sleep
till the last. But it seems they always
very long notice in these cases, and the
did not sail for several days. But no
there was a good deal to be done,
there is no telling how many things to
thought of, before the Pequod was fully equipped.
one knows what a multitude of things—beds, sauce-pans,
and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and
not, are indispensable to the business of housekeeping.
so with whaling, which necessitates a three-years' housekeeping
the wide ocean, far from all grocers, costermongers,
bakers, and bankers. And though this also holds
of merchant vessels, yet not by any means
the same extent as with whalemen. For besides
great length of the whaling voyage, the numerous
peculiar to the prosecution of the fishery, and
impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors
frequented, it must be remembered, that of all
whaling vessels are the most exposed to accidents
all kinds, and especially to the destruction and
of the very things upon which the success
the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare boats,
spars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare
almost, but a spare Captain and duplicate ship.
the period of our arrival at the Island,
heaviest storage of the Pequod had been almost
comprising her beef, bread, water, fuel, and iron
and staves. But, as before hinted, for some
there was a continual fetching and carrying on
of divers odds and ends of things, both
and small. Chief among those who did this
and carrying was Captain Bildad's sister, a lean
lady of a most determined and indefatigable spirit,
withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if
could help it, nothing should be found wanting
the Pequod, after once fairly getting to sea.
one time she would come on board with
jar of pickles for the steward's pantry; another
with a bunch of quills for the chief
desk, where he kept his log; a third
with a roll of flannel for the small
some one's rheumatic back. Never did any woman
deserve her name, which was Charity—Aunt Charity, as
called her. And like a sister of charity
this charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and
ready to turn her hand and heart to
that promised to yield safety, comfort, and consolation
all on board a ship in which her
brother Bildad was concerned, and in which she
owned a score or two of well-saved dollars.
it was startling to see this excellent hearted
coming on board, as she did the last
with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and
still longer whaling lance in the other. Nor
Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward.
for Bildad, he carried about with him a
list of the articles needed, and at every
arrival, down went his mark opposite that article
the paper. Every once in a while Peleg
hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at
men down the hatchways, roaring up to the
at the mast-head, and then concluded by roaring
into his wigwam. During these days of preparation,
and I often visited the craft, and as
I asked about Captain Ahab, and how he
and when he was going to come on
his ship. To these questions they would answer,
he was getting better and better, and was
aboard every day; meantime, the two captains, Peleg
Bildad, could attend to everything necessary to fit
vessel for the voyage. If I had been
honest with myself, I would have seen very
in my heart that I did but half
being committed this way to so long a
without once laying my eyes on the man
was to be the absolute dictator of it,
soon as the ship sailed out upon the
sea. But when a man suspects any wrong,
sometimes happens that if he be already involved
the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up
suspicions even from himself. And much this way
was with me. I said nothing, and tried
think nothing. At last it was given out
some time next day the ship would certainly
So next morning, Queequeg and I took a
early start. CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard. It was
six o'clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn,
we drew nigh the wharf. "There are some
running ahead there, if I see right," said
to Queequeg, "it can't be shadows; she's off
sunrise, I guess; come on!" "Avast!" cried a
whose owner at the same time coming close
us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders,
then insinuating himself between us, stood stooping forward
little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from
to me. It was Elijah. "Going aboard?" "Hands
will you," said I. "Lookee here," said Queequeg,
himself, "go 'way!" "Ain't going aboard, then?" "Yes,
are," said I, "but what business is that
yours? Do you know, Mr. Elijah, that I
you a little impertinent?" "No, no, no; I
aware of that," said Elijah, slowly and wonderingly
from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountable
"Elijah," said I, "you will oblige my friend
me by withdrawing. We are going to the
and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to
detained." "Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore
"He's cracked, Queequeg," said I, "come on." "Holloa!"
stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed
few paces. "Never mind him," said I, "Queequeg,
on." But he stole up to us again,
suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said—"Did
see anything looking like men going towards that
a while ago?" Struck by this plain matter-of-fact
I answered, saying, "Yes, I thought I did
four or five men; but it was too
to be sure." "Very dim, very dim," said
"Morning to ye." Once more we quitted him;
once more he came softly after us; and
my shoulder again, said, "See if you can
'em now, will ye? "Find who?" "Morning to
morning to ye!" he rejoined, again moving off.
I was going to warn ye against—but never
never mind—it's all one, all in the family
frost this morning, ain't it? Good-bye to ye.
see ye again very soon, I guess; unless
before the Grand Jury." And with these cracked
he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment,
no small wonderment at his frantic impudence. At
stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything
profound quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin
was locked within; the hatches were all on,
lumbered with coils of rigging. Going forward to
forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle
Seeing a light, we went down, and found
an old rigger there, wrapped in a tattered
He was thrown at whole length upon two
his face downwards and inclosed in his folded
The profoundest slumber slept upon him. "Those sailors
saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?"
I, looking dubiously at the sleeper. But it
that, when on the wharf, Queequeg had not
all noticed what I now alluded to; hence
would have thought myself to have been optically
in that matter, were it not for Elijah's
inexplicable question. But I beat the thing down;
again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg
perhaps we had best sit up with the
telling him to establish himself accordingly. He put
hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling
it was soft enough; and then, without more
sat quietly down there. "Gracious! Queequeg, don't sit
said I. "Oh! perry dood seat," said Queequeg,
country way; won't hurt him face." "Face!" said
"call that his face? very benevolent countenance then;
how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get
Queequeg, you are heavy, it's grinding the face
the poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look, he'll twitch
off soon. I wonder he don't wake." Queequeg
himself to just beyond the head of the
and lighted his tomahawk pipe. I sat at
feet. We kept the pipe passing over the
from one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioning
in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to
that, in his land, owing to the absence
settees and sofas of all sorts, the king,
and great people generally, were in the custom
fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans;
to furnish a house comfortably in that respect,
had only to buy up eight or ten
fellows, and lay them round in the piers
alcoves. Besides, it was very convenient on an
much better than those garden-chairs which are convertible
walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant,
desiring him to make a settee of himself
a spreading tree, perhaps in some damp marshy
While narrating these things, every time Queequeg received
tomahawk from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of
over the sleeper's head. "What's that for, Queequeg?"
easy, kill-e; oh! perry easy!" He was going
with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe, which,
seemed, had in its two uses both brained
foes and soothed his soul, when we were
attracted to the sleeping rigger. The strong vapour
completely filling the contracted hole, it began to
upon him. He breathed with a sort of
then seemed troubled in the nose; then revolved
once or twice; then sat up and rubbed
eyes. "Holloa!" he breathed at last, "who be
smokers?" "Shipped men," answered I, "when does she
"Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be
She sails to-day. The Captain came aboard last
"What Captain?—Ahab?" "Who but him indeed?" I was
to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab,
we heard a noise on deck. "Holloa! Starbuck's
said the rigger. "He's a lively chief mate,
good man, and a pious; but all alive
I must turn to." And so saying he
on deck, and we followed. It was now
sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in
and threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates
actively engaged; and several of the shore people
busy in bringing various last things on board.
Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
22. Merry Christmas. At length, towards noon, upon
final dismissal of the ship's riggers, and after
Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf,
after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in
whale-boat, with her last gift—a night-cap for Stubb,
second mate, her brother-in-law, and a spare Bible
the steward—after all this, the two Captains, Peleg
Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to
chief mate, Peleg said: "Now, Mr. Starbuck, are
sure everything is right? Captain Ahab is all
spoke to him—nothing more to be got from
eh? Well, call all hands, then. Muster 'em
here—blast 'em!" "No need of profane words, however
the hurry, Peleg," said Bildad, "but away with
friend Starbuck, and do our bidding." How now!
upon the very point of starting for the
Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it
a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as
they were to be joint-commanders at sea, as
as to all appearances in port. And, as
Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet
be seen; only, they said he was in
cabin. But then, the idea was, that his
was by no means necessary in getting the
under weigh, and steering her well out to
Indeed, as that was not at all his
business, but the pilot's; and as he was
yet completely recovered—so they said—therefore, Captain Ahab stayed
And all this seemed natural enough; especially as
the merchant service many captains never show themselves
deck for a considerable time after heaving up
anchor, but remain over the cabin table, having
farewell merry-making with their shore friends, before they
the ship for good with the pilot. But
was not much chance to think over the
for Captain Peleg was now all alive. He
to do most of the talking and commanding,
not Bildad. "Aft here, ye sons of bachelors,"
cried, as the sailors lingered at the main-mast.
Starbuck, drive'em aft." "Strike the tent there!"—was the
order. As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee
never pitched except in port; and on board
Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike
tent was well known to be the next
to heaving up the anchor. "Man the capstan!
and thunder!—jump!"—was the next command, and the crew
for the handspikes. Now in getting under weigh,
station generally occupied by the pilot is the
part of the ship. And here Bildad, who,
Peleg, be it known, in addition to his
officers, was one of the licensed pilots of
port—he being suspected to have got himself made
pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee
all the ships he was concerned in, for
never piloted any other craft—Bildad, I say, might
be seen actively engaged in looking over the
for the approaching anchor, and at intervals singing
seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer
hands at the windlass, who roared forth some
of a chorus about the girls in Booble
with hearty good will. Nevertheless, not three days
Bildad had told them that no profane songs
be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in
under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed
small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's
Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship,
Peleg ripped and swore astern in the most
manner. I almost thought he would sink the
before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily
paused on my handspike, and told Queequeg to
the same, thinking of the perils we both
in starting on the voyage with such a
for a pilot. I was comforting myself, however,
the thought that in pious Bildad might be
some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and
lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke
my rear, and turning round, was horrified at
apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of
his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was
first kick. "Is that the way they heave
the marchant service?" he roared. "Spring, thou sheep-head;
and break thy backbone! Why don't ye spring,
say, all of ye—spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap
the red whiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou
pants. Spring, I say, all of ye, and
your eyes out!" And so saying, he moved
the windlass, here and there using his leg
freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with
psalmody. Thinks I, Captain Peleg must have been
something to-day. At last the anchor was up,
sails were set, and off we glided. It
a short, cold Christmas; and as the short
day merged into night, we found ourselves almost
upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased
in ice, as in polished armor. The long
of teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the
and like the white ivory tusks of some
elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.
Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and
and anon, as the old craft deep dived
the green seas, and sent the shivering frost
over her, and the winds howled, and the
rang, his steady notes were heard,— "Sweet fields
the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.
to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan
between." Never did those sweet words sound more
to me than then. They were full of
and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night
the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet
wetter jacket, there was yet, it then seemed
me, many a pleasant haven in store; and
and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass
up by the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at
At last we gained such an offing, that
two pilots were needed no longer. The stout
that had accompanied us began ranging alongside. It
curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad
affected at this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For
to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for
a ship bound on so long and perilous
voyage—beyond both stormy Capes; a ship in which
thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested;
ship, in which an old shipmate sailed as
a man almost as old as he, once
starting to encounter all the terrors of the
jaw; loath to say good-bye to a thing
every way brimful of every interest to him,—poor
Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious
ran down into the cabin to speak another
word there; again came on deck, and looked
windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters,
bounded by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked
the land; looked aloft; looked right and left;
everywhere and nowhere; and at last, mechanically coiling
rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg
the hand, and holding up a lantern, for
moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as
as to say, "Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can
it; yes, I can." As for Peleg himself,
took it more like a philosopher; but for
his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in
eye, when the lantern came too near. And
too, did not a little run from cabin
deck—now a word below, and now a word
Starbuck, the chief mate. But, at last, he
to his comrade, with a final sort of
about him,—"Captain Bildad—come, old shipmate, we must go.
the main-yard there! Boat ahoy! Stand by to
close alongside, now! Careful, careful!—come, Bildad, boy—say your
Luck to ye, Starbuck—luck to ye, Mr. Stubb—luck
ye, Mr. Flask—good-bye and good luck to ye
this day three years I'll have a hot
smoking for ye in old Nantucket. Hurrah and
"God bless ye, and have ye in His
keeping, men," murmured old Bildad, almost incoherently. "I
ye'll have fine weather now, so that Captain
may soon be moving among ye—a pleasant sun
all he needs, and ye'll have plenty of
in the tropic voyage ye go. Be careful
the hunt, ye mates. Don't stave the boats
ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised
three per cent. within the year. Don't forget
prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, mind that cooper don't
the spare staves. Oh! the sail-needles are in
green locker! Don't whale it too much a'
days, men; but don't miss a fair chance
that's rejecting Heaven's good gifts. Have an eye
the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a
leaky, I thought. If ye touch at the
Mr. Flask, beware of fornication. Good-bye, good-bye! Don't
that cheese too long down in the hold,
Starbuck; it'll spoil. Be careful with the butter—twenty
the pound it was, and mind ye, if—"
come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,—away!" and with that,
hurried him over the side, and both dropt
the boat. Ship and boat diverged; the cold,
night breeze blew between; a screaming gull flew
the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three
cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the
Atlantic. CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore. Some chapters
one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall, newlanded
encountered in New Bedford at the inn. When
that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her
bows into the cold malicious waves, who should
see standing at her helm but Bulkington! I
with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon the man,
in mid-winter just landed from a four years'
voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for
another tempestuous term. The land seemed scorching to
feet. Wonderfullest things are ever the unmentionable; deep
yield no epitaphs; this six-inch chapter is the
grave of Bulkington. Let me only say that
fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship,
miserably drives along the leeward land. The port
fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in
port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets,
all that's kind to our mortalities. But in
gale, the port, the land, is that ship's
jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch
land, though it but graze the keel, would
her shudder through and through. With all her
she crowds all sail off shore; in so
fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would
her homeward; seeks all the lashed sea's landlessness
for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into peril; her
friend her bitterest foe! Know ye now, Bulkington?
do ye seem to see of that mortally
truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but
intrepid effort of the soul to keep the
independence of her sea; while the wildest winds
heaven and earth conspire to cast her on
treacherous, slavish shore? But as in landlessness alone
highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God—so, better is
to perish in that howling infinite, than be
dashed upon the lee, even if that were
For worm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl
land! Terrors of the terrible! is all this
so vain? Take heart, take heart, O Bulkington!
thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of
ocean-perishing—straight up, leaps thy apotheosis! CHAPTER 24. The
As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked
this business of whaling; and as this business
whaling has somehow come to be regarded among
as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore,
am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen,
the injustice hereby done to us hunters of
In the first place, it may be deemed
superfluous to establish the fact, that among people
large, the business of whaling is not accounted
a level with what are called the liberal
If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous
society, it would but slightly advance the general
of his merits, were he presented to the
as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation
the naval officers he should append the initials
(Sperm Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such
procedure would be deemed pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.
one leading reason why the world declines honouring
whalemen, is this: they think that, at best,
vocation amounts to a butchering sort of business;
that when actively engaged therein, we are surrounded
all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that
true. But butchers, also, and butchers of the
badge have been all Martial Commanders whom the
invariably delights to honour. And as for the
of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye
soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty
unknown, and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly
the sperm whale-ship at least among the cleanliest
of this tidy earth. But even granting the
in question to be true; what disordered slippery
of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable
of those battle-fields from which so many soldiers
to drink in all ladies' plaudits? And if
idea of peril so much enhances the popular
of the soldier's profession; let me assure ye
many a veteran who has freely marched up
a battery, would quickly recoil at the apparition
the sperm whale's vast tail, fanning into eddies
air over his head. For what are the
terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors
wonders of God! But, though the world scouts
us whale hunters, yet does it unwittingly pay
the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding adoration! for
all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn
the globe, burn, as before so many shrines,
our glory! But look at this matter in
lights; weigh it in all sorts of scales;
what we whalemen are, and have been. Why
the Dutch in De Witt's time have admirals
their whaling fleets? Why did Louis XVI. of
at his own personal expense, fit out whaling
from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town
score or two of families from our own
of Nantucket? Why did Britain between the years
and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties
of L1,000,000? And lastly, how comes it that
whalemen of America now outnumber all the rest
the banded whalemen in the world; sail a
of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by
thousand men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; the
worth, at the time of sailing, $20,000,000! and
year importing into our harbors a well reaped
of $7,000,000. How comes all this, if there
not something puissant in whaling? But this is
the half; look again. I freely assert, that
cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, point out
single peaceful influence, which within the last sixty
has operated more potentially upon the whole broad
taken in one aggregate, than the high and
business of whaling. One way and another, it
begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so
momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may
be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore
themselves pregnant from her womb. It would be
hopeless, endless task to catalogue all these things.
a handful suffice. For many years past the
has been the pioneer in ferreting out the
and least known parts of the earth. She
explored seas and archipelagoes which had no chart,
no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If
and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once
harbors, let them fire salutes to the honour
glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed them
way, and first interpreted between them and the
They may celebrate as they will the heroes
Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I
that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out
Nantucket, that were as great, and greater than
Cook and your Krusenstern. For in their succourless
they, in the heathenish sharked waters, and by
beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands, battled with virgin
and terrors that Cook with all his marines
muskets would not willingly have dared. All that
made such a flourish of in the old
Sea Voyages, those things were but the life-time
of our heroic Nantucketers. Often, adventures which Vancouver
three chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of
set down in the ship's common log. Ah,
world! Oh, the world! Until the whale fishery
Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any
but colonial, was carried on between Europe and
long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on
Pacific coast. It was the whaleman who first
through the jealous policy of the Spanish crown,
those colonies; and, if space permitted, it might
distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last
the liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from
yoke of Old Spain, and the establishment of
eternal democracy in those parts. That great America
the other side of the sphere, Australia, was
to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After
first blunder-born discovery by a Dutchman, all other
long shunned those shores as pestiferously barbarous; but
whale-ship touched there. The whale-ship is the true
of that now mighty colony. Moreover, in the
of the first Australian settlement, the emigrants were
times saved from starvation by the benevolent biscuit
the whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in their
The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the
truth, and do commercial homage to the whale-ship,
cleared the way for the missionary and the
and in many cases carried the primitive missionaries
their first destinations. If that double-bolted land, Japan,
ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship
to whom the credit will be due; for
she is on the threshold. But if, in
face of all this, you still declare that
has no aesthetically noble associations connected with it,
am I ready to shiver fifty lances with
there, and unhorse you with a split helmet
time. The whale has no famous author, and
no famous chronicler, you will say. The whale
famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler? Who
the first account of our Leviathan? Who but
Job! And who composed the first narrative of
whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a prince than
the Great, who, with his own royal pen,
down the words from Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter
those times! And who pronounced our glowing eulogy
Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burke! True enough, but
whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have no
blood in their veins. No good blood in
veins? They have something better than royal blood
The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel;
by marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old
of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a long
of Folgers and harpooneers—all kith and kin to
Benjamin—this day darting the barbed iron from one
of the world to the other. Good again;
then all confess that somehow whaling is not
Whaling not respectable? Whaling is imperial! By old
statutory law, the whale is declared "a royal
Oh, that's only nominal! The whale himself has
figured in any grand imposing way. The whale
figured in any grand imposing way? In one
the mighty triumphs given to a Roman general
his entering the world's capital, the bones of
whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed
*See subsequent chapters for something more on this
Grant it, since you cite it; but, say
you will, there is no real dignity in
No dignity in whaling? The dignity of our
the very heavens attest. Cetus is a constellation
the South! No more! Drive down your hat
presence of the Czar, and take it off
Queequeg! No more! I know a man that,
his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
I account that man more honourable than that
captain of antiquity who boasted of taking as
walled towns. And, as for me, if, by
possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered prime
in me; if I shall ever deserve any
repute in that small but high hushed world
I might not be unreasonably ambitious of; if
I shall do anything that, upon the whole,
man might rather have done than to have
undone; if, at my death, my executors, or
properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in
desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the
and the glory to whaling; for a whale-ship
my Yale College and my Harvard. CHAPTER 25.
In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I
fain advance naught but substantiated facts. But after
his facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress
not unreasonable surmise, which might tell eloquently upon
cause—such an advocate, would he not be blameworthy?
is well known that at the coronation of
and queens, even modern ones, a certain curious
of seasoning them for their functions is gone
There is a saltcellar of state, so called,
there may be a castor of state. How
use the salt, precisely—who knows? Certain I am,
that a king's head is solemnly oiled at
coronation, even as a head of salad. Can
be, though, that they anoint it with a
of making its interior run well, as they
machinery? Much might be ruminated here, concerning the
dignity of this regal process, because in common
we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a fellow
anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that
In truth, a mature man who uses hair-oil,
medicinally, that man has probably got a quoggy
in him somewhere. As a general rule, he
amount to much in his totality. But the
thing to be considered here, is this—what kind
oil is used at coronations? Certainly it cannot
olive oil, nor macassar oil, nor castor oil,
bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.
then can it possibly be, but sperm oil
its unmanufactured, unpolluted state, the sweetest of all
Think of that, ye loyal Britons! we whalemen
your kings and queens with coronation stuff! CHAPTER
Knights and Squires. The chief mate of the
was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a
by descent. He was a long, earnest man,
though born on an icy coast, seemed well
to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being hard
twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his live
would not spoil like bottled ale. He must
been born in some time of general drought
famine, or upon one of those fast days
which his state is famous. Only some thirty
summers had he seen; those summers had dried
all his physical superfluousness. But this, his thinness,
to speak, seemed no more the token of
anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication
any bodily blight. It was merely the condensation
the man. He was by no means ill-looking;
the contrary. His pure tight skin was an
fit; and closely wrapped up in it, and
with inner health and strength, like a revivified
this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for long
to come, and to endure always, as now;
be it Polar snow or torrid sun, like
patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to
well in all climates. Looking into his eyes,
seemed to see there the yet lingering images
those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted through
A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the
part was a telling pantomime of action, and
a tame chapter of sounds. Yet, for all
hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities
him which at times affected, and in some
seemed well nigh to overbalance all the rest.
conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a
natural reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his
did therefore strongly incline him to superstition; but
that sort of superstition, which in some organizations
rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from
Outward portents and inward presentiments were his. And
at times these things bent the welded iron
his soul, much more did his far-away domestic
of his young Cape wife and child, tend
bend him still more from the original ruggedness
his nature, and open him still further to
latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men, restrain
gush of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by
in the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery.
will have no man in my boat," said
"who is not afraid of a whale." By
he seemed to mean, not only that the
reliable and useful courage was that which arises
the fair estimation of the encountered peril, but
an utterly fearless man is a far more
comrade than a coward. "Aye, aye," said Stubb,
second mate, "Starbuck, there, is as careful a
as you'll find anywhere in this fishery." But
shall ere long see what that word "careful"
means when used by a man like Stubb,
almost any other whale hunter. Starbuck was no
after perils; in him courage was not a
but a thing simply useful to him, and
at hand upon all mortally practical occasions. Besides,
thought, perhaps, that in this business of whaling,
was one of the great staple outfits of
ship, like her beef and her bread, and
to be foolishly wasted. Wherefore he had no
for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor for
in fighting a fish that too much persisted
fighting him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here
this critical ocean to kill whales for my
and not to be killed by them for
and that hundreds of men had been so
Starbuck well knew. What doom was his own
Where, in the bottomless deeps, could he find
torn limbs of his brother? With memories like
in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
as has been said; the courage of this
which could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have
extreme. But it was not in reasonable nature
a man so organized, and with such terrible
and remembrances as he had; it was not
nature that these things should fail in latently
an element in him, which, under suitable circumstances,
break out from its confinement, and burn all
courage up. And brave as he might be,
was that sort of bravery chiefly, visible in
intrepid men, which, while generally abiding firm in
conflict with seas, or winds, or whales, or
of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world,
cannot withstand those more terrific, because more spiritual
which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow
an enraged and mighty man. But were the
narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete
of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I have
heart to write it; for it is a
most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose the fall
valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable
joint stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers
may be; men may have mean and meagre
but man, in the ideal, is so noble
so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature,
over any ignominious blemish in him all his
should run to throw their costliest robes. That
manliness we feel within ourselves, so far within
that it remains intact though all the outer
seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the
spectacle of a valor-ruined man. Nor can piety
at such a shameful sight, completely stifle her
against the permitting stars. But this august dignity
treat of, is not the dignity of kings
robes, but that abounding dignity which has no
investiture. Thou shalt see it shining in the
that wields a pick or drives a spike;
democratic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without
from God; Himself! The great God absolute! The
and circumference of all democracy! His omnipresence, our
equality! If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades
castaways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though
weave round them tragic graces; if even the
mournful, perchance the most abased, among them all,
at times lift himself to the exalted mounts;
I shall touch that workman's arm with some
light; if I shall spread a rainbow over
disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal
bear me out in it, thou Just Spirit
Equality, which hast spread one royal mantle of
over all my kind! Bear me out in
thou great democratic God! who didst not refuse
the swart convict, Bunyan, the pale, poetic pearl;
who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of
gold, the stumped and paupered arm of old
Thou who didst pick up Andrew Jackson from
pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a war-horse;
didst thunder him higher than a throne! Thou
in all Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullest
selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear me
in it, O God! CHAPTER 27. Knights and
Stubb was the second mate. He was a
of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local
was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky; neither craven
valiant; taking perils as they came with an
air; and while engaged in the most imminent
of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected
a journeyman joiner engaged for the year. Good-humored,
and careless, he presided over his whale-boat as
the most deadly encounter were but a dinner,
his crew all invited guests. He was as
about the comfortable arrangement of his part of
boat, as an old stage-driver is about the
of his box. When close to the whale,
the very death-lock of the fight, he handled
unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling
his hammer. He would hum over his old
tunes while flank and flank with the most
monster. Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted
jaws of death into an easy chair. What
thought of death itself, there is no telling.
he ever thought of it at all, might
a question; but, if he ever did chance
cast his mind that way after a comfortable
no doubt, like a good sailor, he took
to be a sort of call of the
to tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, about
which he would find out when he obeyed
order, and not sooner. What, perhaps, with other
made Stubb such an easy-going, unfearing man, so
trudging off with the burden of life in
world full of grave pedlars, all bowed to
ground with their packs; what helped to bring
that almost impious good-humor of his; that thing
have been his pipe. For, like his nose,
short, black little pipe was one of the
features of his face. You would almost as
have expected him to turn out of his
without his nose as without his pipe. He
a whole row of pipes there ready loaded,
in a rack, within easy reach of his
and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them
out in succession, lighting one from the other
the end of the chapter; then loading them
to be in readiness anew. For, when Stubb
instead of first putting his legs into his
he put his pipe into his mouth. I
this continual smoking must have been one cause,
least, of his peculiar disposition; for every one
that this earthly air, whether ashore or afloat,
terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the
mortals who have died exhaling it; and as
time of the cholera, some people go about
a camphorated handkerchief to their mouths; so, likewise,
all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have
as a sort of disinfecting agent. The third
was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha's
A short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious
whales, who somehow seemed to think that the
leviathans had personally and hereditarily affronted him; and
it was a sort of point of honour
him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So utterly
was he to all sense of reverence for
many marvels of their majestic bulk and mystic
and so dead to anything like an apprehension
any possible danger from encountering them; that in
poor opinion, the wondrous whale was but a
of magnified mouse, or at least water-rat, requiring
a little circumvention and some small application of
and trouble in order to kill and boil.
ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of his made him a
waggish in the matter of whales; he followed
fish for the fun of it; and a
years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a
joke that lasted that length of time. As
carpenter's nails are divided into wrought nails and
nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little
was one of the wrought ones; made to
tight and last long. They called him King-Post
board of the Pequod; because, in form, he
be well likened to the short, square timber
by that name in Arctic whalers; and which
the means of many radiating side timbers inserted
it, serves to brace the ship against the
concussions of those battering seas. Now these three
Stubb, and Flask, were momentous men. They it
who by universal prescription commanded three of the
boats as headsmen. In that grand order of
in which Captain Ahab would probably marshal his
to descend on the whales, these three headsmen
as captains of companies. Or, being armed with
long keen whaling spears, they were as a
trio of lancers; even as the harpooneers were
of javelins. And since in this famous fishery,
mate or headsman, like a Gothic Knight of
is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer,
in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh
when the former one has been badly twisted,
elbowed in the assault; and moreover, as there
subsists between the two, a close intimacy and
it is therefore but meet, that in this
we set down who the Pequod's harpooneers were,
to what headsman each of them belonged. First
all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate,
selected for his squire. But Queequeg is already
Next was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay
the most westerly promontory of Martha's Vineyard, where
still exists the last remnant of a village
red men, which has long supplied the neighboring
of Nantucket with many of her most daring
In the fishery, they usually go by the
name of Gay-Headers. Tashtego's long, lean, sable hair,
high cheek bones, and black rounding eyes—for an
Oriental in their largeness, but Antarctic in their
expression—all this sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor of
unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunters, who,
quest of the great New England moose, had
bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the
But no longer snuffing in the trail of
wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now hunted
the wake of the great whales of the
the unerring harpoon of the son fitly replacing
infallible arrow of the sires. To look at
tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you
almost have credited the superstitions of some of
earlier Puritans, and half-believed this wild Indian to
a son of the Prince of the Powers
the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second mate's
Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic,
negro-savage, with a lion-like tread—an Ahasuerus to behold.
from his ears were two golden hoops, so
that the sailors called them ring-bolts, and would
of securing the top-sail halyards to them. In
youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of
whaler, lying in a lonely bay on his
coast. And never having been anywhere in the
but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors
frequented by whalemen; and having now led for
years the bold life of the fishery in
ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner
men they shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric
and erect as a giraffe, moved about the
in all the pomp of six feet five
his socks. There was a corporeal humility in
up at him; and a white man standing
him seemed a white flag come to beg
of a fortress. Curious to tell, this imperial
Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask,
looked like a chess-man beside him. As for
residue of the Pequod's company, be it said,
at the present day not one in two
the many thousand men before the mast employed
the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though
nearly all the officers are. Herein it is
same with the American whale fishery as with
American army and military and merchant navies, and
engineering forces employed in the construction of the
Canals and Railroads. The same, I say, because
all these cases the native American liberally provides
brains, the rest of the world as generously
the muscles. No small number of these whaling
belong to the Azores, where the outward bound
whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from
hardy peasants of those rocky shores. In like
the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or
put in at the Shetland Islands, to receive
full complement of their crew. Upon the passage
they drop them there again. How it is,
is no telling, but Islanders seem to make
best whalemen. They were nearly all Islanders in
Pequod, Isolatoes too, I call such, not acknowledging
common continent of men, but each Isolato living
a separate continent of his own. Yet now,
along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes
An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles
the sea, and all the ends of the
accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay
world's grievances before that bar from which not
many of them ever come back. Black Little
never did—oh, no! he went before. Poor Alabama
On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere
see him, beating his tambourine; prelusive of the
time, when sent for, to the great quarter-deck
high, he was bid strike in with angels,
beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward
hailed a hero there! CHAPTER 28. Ahab. For
days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was
of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each
at the watches, and for aught that could
seen to the contrary, they seemed to be
only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes
from the cabin with orders so sudden and
that after all it was plain they but
vicariously. Yes, their supreme lord and dictator was
though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted
penetrate into the now sacred retreat of the
Every time I ascended to the deck from
watches below, I instantly gazed aft to mark
any strange face were visible; for my first
disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the
of the sea, became almost a perturbation. This
strangely heightened at times by the ragged Elijah's
incoherences uninvitedly recurring to me, with a subtle
I could not have before conceived of. But
could I withstand them, much as in other
I was almost ready to smile at the
whimsicalities of that outlandish prophet of the wharves.
whatever it was of apprehensiveness or uneasiness—to call
so—which I felt, yet whenever I came to
about me in the ship, it seemed against
warrantry to cherish such emotions. For though the
with the great body of the crew, were
far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than
of the tame merchant-ship companies which my previous
had made me acquainted with, still I ascribed
rightly ascribed it—to the fierce uniqueness of the
nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation in which
had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially
aspect of the three chief officers of the
the mates, which was most forcibly calculated to
these colourless misgivings, and induce confidence and cheerfulness
every presentment of the voyage. Three better, more
sea-officers and men, each in his own different
could not readily be found, and they were
one of them Americans; a Nantucketer, a Vineyarder,
Cape man. Now, it being Christmas when the
shot from out her harbor, for a space
had biting Polar weather, though all the time
away from it to the southward; and by
degree and minute of latitude which we sailed,
leaving that merciless winter, and all its intolerable
behind us. It was one of those less
but still grey and gloomy enough mornings of
transition, when with a fair wind the ship
rushing through the water with a vindictive sort
leaping and melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted
the deck at the call of the forenoon
so soon as I levelled my glance towards
taffrail, foreboding shivers ran over me. Reality outran
Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck. There seemed
sign of common bodily illness about him, nor
the recovery from any. He looked like a
cut away from the stake, when the fire
overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
taking away one particle from their compacted aged
His whole high, broad form, seemed made of
bronze, and shaped in an unalterable mould, like
cast Perseus. Threading its way out from among
grey hairs, and continuing right down one side
his tawny scorched face and neck, till it
in his clothing, you saw a slender rod-like
lividly whitish. It resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes
in the straight, lofty trunk of a great
when the upper lightning tearingly darts down it,
without wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves
the bark from top to bottom, ere running
into the soil, leaving the tree still greenly
but branded. Whether that mark was born with
or whether it was the scar left by
desperate wound, no one could certainly say. By
tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no
was made to it, especially by the mates.
once Tashtego's senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among
crew, superstitiously asserted that not till he was
forty years old did Ahab become that way
and then it came upon him, not in
fury of any mortal fray, but in an
strife at sea. Yet, this wild hint seemed
negatived, by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an
sepulchral man, who, having never before sailed out
Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon
Ahab. Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities,
invested this old Manxman with preternatural powers of
So that no white sailor seriously contradicted him
he said that if ever Captain Ahab should
tranquilly laid out—which might hardly come to pass,
he muttered—then, whoever should do that last office
the dead, would find a birth-mark on him
crown to sole. So powerfully did the whole
aspect of Ahab affect me, and the livid
which streaked it, that for the first few
I hardly noted that not a little of
overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric white
upon which he partly stood. It had previously
to me that this ivory leg had at
been fashioned from the polished bone of the
whale's jaw. "Aye, he was dismasted off Japan,"
the old Gay-Head Indian once; "but like his
craft, he shipped another mast without coming home
it. He has a quiver of 'em." I
struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon
side of the Pequod's quarter deck, and pretty
to the mizzen shrouds, there was an auger
bored about half an inch or so, into
plank. His bone leg steadied in that hole;
arm elevated, and holding by a shroud; Captain
stood erect, looking straight out beyond the ship's
prow. There was an infinity of firmest fortitude,
determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless,
dedication of that glance. Not a word he
nor did his officers say aught to him;
by all their minutest gestures and expressions, they
showed the uneasy, if not painful, consciousness of
under a troubled master-eye. And not only that,
moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a
in his face; in all the nameless regal
dignity of some mighty woe. Ere long, from
first visit in the air, he withdrew into
cabin. But after that morning, he was every
visible to the crew; either standing in his
or seated upon an ivory stool he had;
heavily walking the deck. As the sky grew
gloomy; indeed, began to grow a little genial,
became still less and less a recluse; as
when the ship had sailed from home, nothing
the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had
kept him so secluded. And, by and by,
came to pass, that he was almost continually
the air; but, as yet, for all that
said, or perceptibly did, on the at last
deck, he seemed as unnecessary there as another
But the Pequod was only making a passage
not regularly cruising; nearly all whaling preparatives needing
the mates were fully competent to, so that
was little or nothing, out of himself, to
or excite Ahab, now; and thus chase away,
that one interval, the clouds that layer upon
were piled upon his brow, as ever all
choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon.
ere long, the warm, warbling persuasiveness of the
holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually to
him from his mood. For, as when the
dancing girls, April and May, trip home to
wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest, ruggedest, most
old oak will at least send forth some
green sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so
did, in the end, a little respond to
playful allurings of that girlish air. More than
did he put forth the faint blossom of
look, which, in any other man, would have
flowered out in a smile. CHAPTER 29. Enter
to Him, Stubb. Some days elapsed, and ice
icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went rolling
the bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almost
reigns on the threshold of the eternal August
the Tropic. The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed,
redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian
heaped up—flaked up, with rose-water snow. The starred
stately nights seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets,
at home in lonely pride, the memory of
absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns! For
man, 'twas hard to choose between such winsome
and such seducing nights. But all the witcheries
that unwaning weather did not merely lend new
and potencies to the outward world. Inward they
upon the soul, especially when the still mild
of eve came on; then, memory shot her
as the clear ice most forms of noiseless
And all these subtle agencies, more and more
wrought on Ahab's texture. Old age is always
as if, the longer linked with life, the
man has to do with aught that looks
death. Among sea-commanders, the old greybeards will oftenest
their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck. It
so with Ahab; only that now, of late,
seemed so much to live in the open
that truly speaking, his visits were more to
cabin, than from the cabin to the planks.
feels like going down into one's tomb,"—he would
to himself—"for an old captain like me to
descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my
berth." So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the
of the night were set, and the band
deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below;
when if a rope was to be hauled
the forecastle, the sailors flung it not rudely
as by day, but with some cautiousness dropt
to its place for fear of disturbing their
shipmates; when this sort of steady quietude would
to prevail, habitually, the silent steersman would watch
cabin-scuttle; and ere long the old man would
gripping at the iron banister, to help his
way. Some considering touch of humanity was in
for at times like these, he usually abstained
patrolling the quarter-deck; because to his wearied mates,
repose within six inches of his ivory heel,
would have been the reverberating crack and din
that bony step, that their dreams would have
on the crunching teeth of sharks. But once,
mood was on him too deep for common
and as with heavy, lumber-like pace he was
the ship from taffrail to mainmast, Stubb, the
second mate, came up from below, with a
unassured, deprecating humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab
pleased to walk the planks, then, no one
say nay; but there might be some way
muffling the noise; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly
a globe of tow, and the insertion into
of the ivory heel. Ah! Stubb, thou didst
know Ahab then. "Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb,"
Ahab, "that thou wouldst wad me that fashion?
go thy ways; I had forgot. Below to
nightly grave; where such as ye sleep between
to use ye to the filling one at
dog, and kennel!" Starting at the unforseen concluding
of the so suddenly scornful old man, Stubb
speechless a moment; then said excitedly, "I am
used to be spoken to that way, sir;
do but less than half like it, sir."
gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently
away, as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
sir; not yet," said Stubb, emboldened, "I will
tamely be called a dog, sir." "Then be
ten times a donkey, and a mule, and
ass, and begone, or I'll clear the world
thee!" As he said this, Ahab advanced upon
with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that
involuntarily retreated. "I was never served so before
giving a hard blow for it," muttered Stubb,
he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle. "It's very
Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know
to go back and strike him, or—what's that?—down
on my knees and pray for him? Yes,
was the thought coming up in me; but
would be the first time I ever did
It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too;
take him fore and aft, he's about the
old man Stubb ever sailed with. How he
at me!—his eyes like powder-pans! is he mad?
there's something on his mind, as sure as
must be something on a deck when it
He aint in his bed now, either, more
three hours out of the twenty-four; and he
sleep then. Didn't that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell
that of a morning he always finds the
man's hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and
sheets down at the foot, and the coverlid
tied into knots, and the pillow a sort
frightful hot, as though a baked brick had
on it? A hot old man! I guess
got what some folks ashore call a conscience;
a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say—worse nor a
Well, well; I don't know what it is,
the Lord keep me from catching it. He's
of riddles; I wonder what he goes into
after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells
he suspects; what's that for, I should like
know? Who's made appointments with him in the
Ain't that queer, now? But there's no telling,
the old game—Here goes for a snooze. Damn
it's worth a fellow's while to be born
the world, if only to fall right asleep.
now that I think of it, that's about
first thing babies do, and that's a sort
queer, too. Damn me, but all things are
come to think of 'em. But that's against
principles. Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and
when you can, is my twelfth—So here goes
But how's that? didn't he call me a
blazes! he called me ten times a donkey,
piled a lot of jackasses on top of
He might as well have kicked me, and
with it. Maybe he did kick me, and
didn't observe it, I was so taken all
with his brow, somehow. It flashed like a
bone. What the devil's the matter with me?
don't stand right on my legs. Coming afoul
that old man has a sort of turned
wrong side out. By the Lord, I must
been dreaming, though—How? how? how?—but the only way's
stash it; so here goes to hammock again;
in the morning, I'll see how this plaguey
thinks over by daylight." CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.
Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while
over the bulwarks; and then, as had been
with him of late, calling a sailor of
watch, he sent him below for his ivory
and also his pipe. Lighting the pipe at
binnacle lamp and planting the stool on the
side of the deck, he sat and smoked.
old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving
kings were fabricated, saith tradition, of the tusks
the narwhale. How could one look at Ahab
seated on that tripod of bones, without bethinking
of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan
the plank, and a king of the sea,
a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab. Some
passed, during which the thick vapour came from
mouth in quick and constant puffs, which blew
again into his face. "How now," he soliloquized
last, withdrawing the tube, "this smoking no longer
Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with
if thy charm be gone! Here have I
unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring—aye, and ignorantly smoking to
all the while; to windward, and with such
whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my
jets were the strongest and fullest of trouble.
business have I with this pipe? This thing
is meant for sereneness, to send up mild
vapours among mild white hairs, not among torn
locks like mine. I'll smoke no more—" He
the still lighted pipe into the sea. The
hissed in the waves; the same instant the
shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made.
slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks. CHAPTER
Queen Mab. Next morning Stubb accosted Flask. "Such
queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know
old man's ivory leg, well I dreamed he
me with it; and when I tried to
back, upon my soul, my little man, I
my leg right off! And then, presto! Ahab
a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool,
kicking at it. But what was still more
Flask—you know how curious all dreams are—through all
rage that I was in, I somehow seemed
be thinking to myself, that after all, it
not much of an insult, that kick from
'Why,' thinks I, 'what's the row? It's not
real leg, only a false leg.' And there's
mighty difference between a living thump and a
thump. That's what makes a blow from the
Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than
blow from a cane. The living member—that makes
living insult, my little man. And thinks I
myself all the while, mind, while I was
my silly toes against that cursed pyramid—so confoundedly
was it all, all the while, I say,
was thinking to myself, 'what's his leg now,
a cane—a whalebone cane. Yes,' thinks I, 'it
only a playful cudgelling—in fact, only a whaleboning
he gave me—not a base kick. Besides,' thinks
'look at it once; why, the end of
foot part—what a small sort of end it
whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me,
a devilish broad insult. But this insult is
down to a point only.' But now comes
greatest joke of the dream, Flask. While I
battering away at the pyramid, a sort of
old merman, with a hump on his back,
me by the shoulders, and slews me round.
are you 'bout?' says he. Slid! man, but
was frightened. Such a phiz! But, somehow, next
I was over the fright. 'What am I
says I at last. 'And what business is
of yours, I should like to know, Mr.
Do you want a kick?' By the lord,
I had no sooner said that, than he
round his stern to me, bent over, and
up a lot of seaweed he had for
clout—what do you think, I saw?—why thunder alive,
his stern was stuck full of marlinspikes, with
points out. Says I, on second thoughts, 'I
I won't kick you, old fellow.' 'Wise Stubb,'
he, 'wise Stubb;' and kept muttering it all
time, a sort of eating of his own
like a chimney hag. Seeing he wasn't going
stop saying over his 'wise Stubb, wise Stubb,'
thought I might as well fall to kicking
pyramid again. But I had only just lifted
foot for it, when he roared out, 'Stop
kicking!' 'Halloa,' says I, 'what's the matter now,
fellow?' 'Look ye here,' says he; 'let's argue
insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?' 'Yes,
did,' says I—'right here it was.' 'Very good,'
he—'he used his ivory leg, didn't he?' 'Yes,
did,' says I. 'Well then,' says he, 'wise
what have you to complain of? Didn't he
with right good will? it wasn't a common
pine leg he kicked with, was it? No,
were kicked by a great man, and with
beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It's an honour; I
it an honour. Listen, wise Stubb. In old
the greatest lords think it great glory to
slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of;
be your boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked
old Ahab, and made a wise man of.
what I say; be kicked by him; account
kicks honours; and on no account kick back;
you can't help yourself, wise Stubb. Don't you
that pyramid?' With that, he all of a
seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to swim
into the air. I snored; rolled over; and
I was in my hammock! Now, what do
think of that dream, Flask?" "I don't know;
seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.'"
be; may be. But it's made a wise
of me, Flask. D'ye see Ahab standing there,
looking over the stern? Well, the best thing
can do, Flask, is to let the old
alone; never speak to him, whatever he says.
What's that he shouts? Hark!" "Mast-head, there! Look
all of ye! There are whales hereabouts! "If
see a white one, split your lungs for
"What do you think of that now, Flask?
there a small drop of something queer about
eh? A white whale—did ye mark that, man?
ye—there's something special in the wind. Stand by
it, Flask. Ahab has that that's bloody on
